Title: A Tale of Two Cities


Top 10 Shortest Sentences:
- CHAPTER II. (Words: 2)
- I say, Jerry! (Words: 3)
- Now comes the difference. (Words: 4)
- I belong to Tellson’s Bank. (Words: 5)
- Make the best of your way. (Words: 6)
- I am going to Paris on business. (Words: 7)
- Much of that wouldn’t do for you, Jerry! (Words: 8)
- The obscurity was so difficult to penetrate that Mr. (Words: 9)
- Tellson’s Bank had a run upon it in the mail. (Words: 10)
- He lowered the window, and looked out at the rising sun. (Words: 11)

Top 10 Longest Words:
- undistinguishable (Length: 17 characters)
- incommodiousness (Length: 16 characters)
- incomprehensible (Length: 16 characters)
- enthusiastically (Length: 16 characters)
- disproportionate (Length: 16 characters)
- unenforceability (Length: 16 characters)
- unconsciousness (Length: 15 characters)
- acknowledgments (Length: 15 characters)
- disinterestedly (Length: 15 characters)
- accomplishments (Length: 15 characters)

Top 10 Most Common Letters:
- e (Occurrences: 74855)
- t (Occurrences: 54065)
- a (Occurrences: 48207)
- o (Occurrences: 46545)
- n (Occurrences: 42387)
- i (Occurrences: 40986)
- h (Occurrences: 39023)
- s (Occurrences: 37572)
- r (Occurrences: 37266)
- d (Occurrences: 28036)

Top 10 Most Common Words:
- the (Occurrences: 8241)
- and (Occurrences: 5065)
- of (Occurrences: 4140)
- to (Occurrences: 3653)
- a (Occurrences: 3015)
- in (Occurrences: 2662)
- it (Occurrences: 2082)
- his (Occurrences: 2008)
- i (Occurrences: 1972)
- that (Occurrences: 1950)
Top 10 Longest Sentences:
- Title: A Tale of Two Cities


Author: Charles Dickens

Release date: January 1, 1994 [eBook #98]
                Most recently updated: March 27, 2021

Language: English



*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A TALE OF TWO CITIES ***



A TALE OF TWO CITIES

A STORY OF THE FRENCH REVOLUTION

By Charles Dickens


CONTENTS


     Book the First--Recalled to Life

     CHAPTER I      The Period
     CHAPTER II     The Mail
     CHAPTER III    The Night Shadows
     CHAPTER IV     The Preparation
     CHAPTER V      The Wine-shop
     CHAPTER VI     The Shoemaker


     Book the Second--the Golden Thread

     CHAPTER I      Five Years Later
     CHAPTER II     A Sight
     CHAPTER III    A Disappointment
     CHAPTER IV     Congratulatory
     CHAPTER V      The Jackal
     CHAPTER VI     Hundreds of People
     CHAPTER VII    Monseigneur in Town
     CHAPTER VIII   Monseigneur in the Country
     CHAPTER IX     The Gorgon’s Head
     CHAPTER X      Two Promises
     CHAPTER XI     A Companion Picture
     CHAPTER XII    The Fellow of Delicacy
     CHAPTER XIII   The Fellow of no Delicacy
     CHAPTER XIV    The Honest Tradesman
     CHAPTER XV     Knitting
     CHAPTER XVI    Still Knitting
     CHAPTER XVII   One Night
     CHAPTER XVIII  Nine Days
     CHAPTER XIX    An Opinion
     CHAPTER XX     A Plea
     CHAPTER XXI    Echoing Footsteps
     CHAPTER XXII   The Sea Still Rises
     CHAPTER XXIII  Fire Rises
     CHAPTER XXIV   Drawn to the Loadstone Rock


     Book the Third--the Track of a Storm

     CHAPTER I      In Secret
     CHAPTER II     The Grindstone
     CHAPTER III    The Shadow
     CHAPTER IV     Calm in Storm
     CHAPTER V      The Wood-sawyer
     CHAPTER VI     Triumph
     CHAPTER VII    A Knock at the Door
     CHAPTER VIII   A Hand at Cards
     CHAPTER IX     The Game Made
     CHAPTER X      The Substance of the Shadow
     CHAPTER XI     Dusk
     CHAPTER XII    Darkness
     CHAPTER XIII   Fifty-two
     CHAPTER XIV    The Knitting Done
     CHAPTER XV     The Footsteps Die Out For Ever





Book the First--Recalled to Life




CHAPTER I. (Length: 2201 characters)
- It carried me into great and unexpected peril; but it is
a sacred object, and if it had carried me to death I hope it would have
sustained me.”

“Not to death,” said the uncle; “it is not necessary to say, to death.”

“I doubt, sir,” returned the nephew, “whether, if it had carried me to
the utmost brink of death, you would have cared to stop me there.”

The deepened marks in the nose, and the lengthening of the fine straight
lines in the cruel face, looked ominous as to that; the uncle made a
graceful gesture of protest, which was so clearly a slight form of good
breeding that it was not reassuring.

“Indeed, sir,” pursued the nephew, “for anything I know, you may have
expressly worked to give a more suspicious appearance to the suspicious
circumstances that surrounded me.”

“No, no, no,” said the uncle, pleasantly.

“But, however that may be,” resumed the nephew, glancing at him with
deep distrust, “I know that your diplomacy would stop me by any means,
and would know no scruple as to means.”

“My friend, I told you so,” said the uncle, with a fine pulsation in the
two marks. “Do me the favour to recall that I told you so, long ago.”

“I recall it.”

“Thank you,” said the Marquis--very sweetly indeed. (Length: 1251 characters)
- Daring burglaries by armed men, and
highway robberies, took place in the capital itself every night;
families were publicly cautioned not to go out of town without removing
their furniture to upholsterers’ warehouses for security; the highwayman
in the dark was a City tradesman in the light, and, being recognised and
challenged by his fellow-tradesman whom he stopped in his character of
“the Captain,” gallantly shot him through the head and rode away; the
mail was waylaid by seven robbers, and the guard shot three dead, and
then got shot dead himself by the other four, “in consequence of the
failure of his ammunition:” after which the mail was robbed in peace;
that magnificent potentate, the Lord Mayor of London, was made to stand
and deliver on Turnham Green, by one highwayman, who despoiled the
illustrious creature in sight of all his retinue; prisoners in London
gaols fought battles with their turnkeys, and the majesty of the law
fired blunderbusses in among them, loaded with rounds of shot and ball;
thieves snipped off diamond crosses from the necks of noble lords at
Court drawing-rooms; musketeers went into St. (Length: 1149 characters)
- The other is his brother, the worst of a bad race.’

“It was with the greatest difficulty that the boy gathered bodily force
to speak; but, his spirit spoke with a dreadful emphasis.

“‘We were so robbed by that man who stands there, as all we common dogs
are by those superior Beings--taxed by him without mercy, obliged to
work for him without pay, obliged to grind our corn at his mill, obliged
to feed scores of his tame birds on our wretched crops, and forbidden
for our lives to keep a single tame bird of our own, pillaged and
plundered to that degree that when we chanced to have a bit of meat, we
ate it in fear, with the door barred and the shutters closed, that his
people should not see it and take it from us--I say, we were so robbed,
and hunted, and were made so poor, that our father told us it was a
dreadful thing to bring a child into the world, and that what we should
most pray for, was, that our women might be barren and our miserable
race die out!’

“I had never before seen the sense of being oppressed, bursting forth
like a fire. (Length: 1075 characters)
- The buzz of the great flies was loud again.

“Miss Manette, have you seen the prisoner before?”

“Yes, sir.”

“Where?”

“On board of the packet-ship just now referred to, sir, and on the same
occasion.”

“You are the young lady just now referred to?”

“O! most unhappily, I am!”

The plaintive tone of her compassion merged into the less musical voice
of the Judge, as he said something fiercely: “Answer the questions put
to you, and make no remark upon them.”

“Miss Manette, had you any conversation with the prisoner on that
passage across the Channel?”

“Yes, sir.”

“Recall it.”

In the midst of a profound stillness, she faintly began: “When the
gentleman came on board--”

“Do you mean the prisoner?” inquired the Judge, knitting his brows.

“Yes, my Lord.”

“Then say the prisoner.”

“When the prisoner came on board, he noticed that my father,” turning
her eyes lovingly to him as he stood beside her, “was much fatigued
and in a very weak state of health. (Length: 1003 characters)
- Had he come on board alone?”

“No.”

“How many were with him?”

“Two French gentlemen.”

“Had they conferred together?”

“They had conferred together until the last moment, when it was
necessary for the French gentlemen to be landed in their boat.”

“Had any papers been handed about among them, similar to these lists?”

“Some papers had been handed about among them, but I don’t know what
papers.”

“Like these in shape and size?”

“Possibly, but indeed I don’t know, although they stood whispering very
near to me: because they stood at the top of the cabin steps to have the
light of the lamp that was hanging there; it was a dull lamp, and they
spoke very low, and I did not hear what they said, and saw only that
they looked at papers.”

“Now, to the prisoner’s conversation, Miss Manette.”

“The prisoner was as open in his confidence with me--which arose out
of my helpless situation--as he was kind, and good, and useful to my
father. (Length: 973 characters)
- Let me look.”

“Never!” said Miss Pross, who understood the request as perfectly as
Madame Defarge understood the answer.

“If they are not in that room, they are gone, and can be pursued and
brought back,” said Madame Defarge to herself.

“As long as you don’t know whether they are in that room or not, you are
uncertain what to do,” said Miss Pross to herself; “and you shall not
know that, if I can prevent your knowing it; and know that, or not know
that, you shall not leave here while I can hold you.”

“I have been in the streets from the first, nothing has stopped me,
I will tear you to pieces, but I will have you from that door,” said
Madame Defarge.

“We are alone at the top of a high house in a solitary courtyard, we are
not likely to be heard, and I pray for bodily strength to keep you here,
while every minute you are here is worth a hundred thousand guineas to
my darling,” said Miss Pross. (Length: 930 characters)
- As I was saying--”

Her look so discomposed him that he stopped, wandered, and began anew:

“As I was saying; if Monsieur Manette had not died; if he had suddenly
and silently disappeared; if he had been spirited away; if it had not
been difficult to guess to what dreadful place, though no art could
trace him; if he had an enemy in some compatriot who could exercise a
privilege that I in my own time have known the boldest people afraid
to speak of in a whisper, across the water there; for instance, the
privilege of filling up blank forms for the consignment of any one
to the oblivion of a prison for any length of time; if his wife had
implored the king, the queen, the court, the clergy, for any tidings of
him, and all quite in vain;--then the history of your father would have
been the history of this unfortunate gentleman, the Doctor of Beauvais.”

“I entreat you to tell me more, sir.”

“I will. (Length: 926 characters)
- Bring him to the lamp!”

Down, and up, and head foremost on the steps of the building; now, on
his knees; now, on his feet; now, on his back; dragged, and struck at,
and stifled by the bunches of grass and straw that were thrust into his
face by hundreds of hands; torn, bruised, panting, bleeding, yet always
entreating and beseeching for mercy; now full of vehement agony of
action, with a small clear space about him as the people drew one
another back that they might see; now, a log of dead wood drawn through
a forest of legs; he was hauled to the nearest street corner where one
of the fatal lamps swung, and there Madame Defarge let him go--as a cat
might have done to a mouse--and silently and composedly looked at him
while they made ready, and while he besought her: the women passionately
screeching at him all the time, and the men sternly calling out to have
him killed with grass in his mouth. (Length: 922 characters)
- He
held the letter out inquiringly; and Monseigneur looked at it, in the
person of this plotting and indignant refugee; and Monseigneur looked at
it in the person of that plotting and indignant refugee; and This, That,
and The Other, all had something disparaging to say, in French or in
English, concerning the Marquis who was not to be found.

“Nephew, I believe--but in any case degenerate successor--of the
polished Marquis who was murdered,” said one. “Happy to say, I never
knew him.”

“A craven who abandoned his post,” said another--this Monseigneur had
been got out of Paris, legs uppermost and half suffocated, in a load of
hay--“some years ago.”

“Infected with the new doctrines,” said a third, eyeing the direction
through his glass in passing; “set himself in opposition to the last
Marquis, abandoned the estates when he inherited them, and left them to
the ruffian herd. (Length: 904 characters)
