Title: Anne of Green Gables


Top 10 Shortest Sentences:
- A boy! (Words: 2)
- Spencer says--oh, Mr. (Words: 3)
- Won’t you sit down? (Words: 4)
- I’d ruther look at people. (Words: 5)
- Her cousin lives there and Mrs. (Words: 6)
- Rachel could not have been more astonished. (Words: 7)
- She was actually stricken dumb for five seconds. (Words: 8)
- She was sitting there one afternoon in early June. (Words: 9)
- Rachel felt that she had received a severe mental jolt. (Words: 10)
- Well, I’m sorry for that poor young one and no mistake. (Words: 11)

Top 10 Longest Words:
- undemonstrativeness (Length: 19 characters)
- _inextinguishable_ (Length: 18 characters)
- unsympathetically (Length: 17 characters)
- unaccustomedness (Length: 16 characters)
- misunderstanding (Length: 16 characters)
- _excruciatingly_ (Length: 16 characters)
- responsibilities (Length: 16 characters)
- unenforceability (Length: 16 characters)
- understandingly (Length: 15 characters)
- comprehensively (Length: 15 characters)

Top 10 Most Common Letters:
- e (Occurrences: 53856)
- t (Occurrences: 39860)
- a (Occurrences: 37837)
- o (Occurrences: 32943)
- i (Occurrences: 31593)
- n (Occurrences: 31532)
- s (Occurrences: 27412)
- h (Occurrences: 25849)
- r (Occurrences: 25667)
- l (Occurrences: 21782)

Top 10 Most Common Words:
- the (Occurrences: 4113)
- and (Occurrences: 3464)
- i (Occurrences: 3264)
- to (Occurrences: 3129)
- a (Occurrences: 2287)
- it (Occurrences: 2114)
- of (Occurrences: 2048)
- you (Occurrences: 1772)
- in (Occurrences: 1539)
- she (Occurrences: 1517)
Top 10 Longest Sentences:
- Rachel Lynde Is Properly Horrified
     CHAPTER X          Anne’s Apology
     CHAPTER XI         Anne’s Impressions of Sunday School
     CHAPTER XII        A Solemn Vow and Promise
     CHAPTER XIII       The Delights of Anticipation
     CHAPTER XIV        Anne’s Confession
     CHAPTER XV         A Tempest in the School Teapot
     CHAPTER XVI        Diana Is Invited to Tea with Tragic Results
     CHAPTER XVII       A New Interest in Life
     CHAPTER XVIII      Anne to the Rescue
     CHAPTER XIX        A Concert a Catastrophe and a Confession
     CHAPTER XX         A Good Imagination Gone Wrong
     CHAPTER XXI        A New Departure in Flavorings
     CHAPTER XXII       Anne is Invited Out to Tea
     CHAPTER XXIII      Anne Comes to Grief in an Affair of Honor
     CHAPTER XXIV       Miss Stacy and Her Pupils Get Up a Concert
     CHAPTER XXV        Matthew Insists on Puffed Sleeves
     CHAPTER XXVI       The Story Club Is Formed
     CHAPTER XXVII      Vanity and Vexation of Spirit
     CHAPTER XXVIII     An Unfortunate Lily Maid
     CHAPTER XXIX       An Epoch in Anne’s Life
     CHAPTER XXX        The Queens Class Is Organized
     CHAPTER XXXI       Where the Brook and River Meet
     CHAPTER XXXII      The Pass List Is Out
     CHAPTER XXXIII     The Hotel Concert
     CHAPTER XXXIV      A Queen’s Girl
     CHAPTER XXXV       The Winter at Queen’s
     CHAPTER XXXVI      The Glory and the Dream
     CHAPTER XXXVII     The Reaper Whose Name Is Death
     CHAPTER XXXVIII    The Bend in the road




ANNE OF GREEN GABLES




CHAPTER I. (Length: 1613 characters)
- She had intended to teach Anne
the childish classic, “Now I lay me down to sleep.” But she had, as
I have told you, the glimmerings of a sense of humor--which is simply
another name for a sense of fitness of things; and it suddenly occurred
to her that that simple little prayer, sacred to white-robed childhood
lisping at motherly knees, was entirely unsuited to this freckled witch
of a girl who knew and cared nothing about God’s love, since she had
never had it translated to her through the medium of human love.

“You’re old enough to pray for yourself, Anne,” she said finally. “Just
thank God for your blessings and ask Him humbly for the things you
want.”

“Well, I’ll do my best,” promised Anne, burying her face in Marilla’s
lap. “Gracious heavenly Father--that’s the way the ministers say it in
church, so I suppose it’s all right in private prayer, isn’t it?” she
interjected, lifting her head for a moment. “Gracious heavenly Father,
I thank Thee for the White Way of Delight and the Lake of Shining
Waters and Bonny and the Snow Queen. (Length: 1068 characters)
- Nevertheless, when Diana and the other
girls had rushed frantically around the house--except Ruby Gillis, who
remained as if rooted to the ground and went into hysterics--they found
Anne lying all white and limp among the wreck and ruin of the Virginia
creeper.

“Anne, are you killed?” shrieked Diana, throwing herself on her knees
beside her friend. “Oh, Anne, dear Anne, speak just one word to me and
tell me if you’re killed.”

To the immense relief of all the girls, and especially of Josie Pye,
who, in spite of lack of imagination, had been seized with horrible
visions of a future branded as the girl who was the cause of Anne
Shirley’s early and tragic death, Anne sat dizzily up and answered
uncertainly:

“No, Diana, I am not killed, but I think I am rendered unconscious.”

“Where?” sobbed Carrie Sloane. “Oh, where, Anne?” Before Anne could
answer Mrs. (Length: 884 characters)
- There were rosy bleeding-hearts
and great splendid crimson peonies; white, fragrant narcissi and thorny,
sweet Scotch roses; pink and blue and white columbines and lilac-tinted
Bouncing Bets; clumps of southernwood and ribbon grass and mint; purple
Adam-and-Eve, daffodils, and masses of sweet clover white with its
delicate, fragrant, feathery sprays; scarlet lightning that shot
its fiery lances over prim white musk-flowers; a garden it was where
sunshine lingered and bees hummed, and winds, beguiled into loitering,
purred and rustled.

“Oh, Diana,” said Anne at last, clasping her hands and speaking almost
in a whisper, “oh, do you think you can like me a little--enough to be
my bosom friend?”

Diana laughed. (Length: 731 characters)
- When Prissy Andrews, attired in
a new pink-silk waist with a string of pearls about her smooth white
throat and real carnations in her hair--rumor whispered that the master
had sent all the way to town for them for her--“climbed the slimy
ladder, dark without one ray of light,” Anne shivered in luxurious
sympathy; when the choir sang “Far Above the Gentle Daisies” Anne gazed
at the ceiling as if it were frescoed with angels; when Sam Sloane
proceeded to explain and illustrate “How Sockery Set a Hen” Anne laughed
until people sitting near her laughed too, more out of sympathy with her
than with amusement at a selection that was rather threadbare even in
Avonlea; and when Mr. (Length: 692 characters)
- I love you as dear as if you were my own flesh and blood
and you’ve been my joy and comfort ever since you came to Green Gables.”

Two days afterwards they carried Matthew Cuthbert over his homestead
threshold and away from the fields he had tilled and the orchards he had
loved and the trees he had planted; and then Avonlea settled back to its
usual placidity and even at Green Gables affairs slipped into their old
groove and work was done and duties fulfilled with regularity as before,
although always with the aching sense of “loss in all familiar things.”
 Anne, new to grief, thought it almost sad that it could be so--that
they _could_ go on in the old way without Matthew. (Length: 692 characters)
- INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause. (Length: 685 characters)
- Matthew and Marilla were there, with eyes and ears for only one student
on the platform--a tall girl in pale green, with faintly flushed
cheeks and starry eyes, who read the best essay and was pointed out and
whispered about as the Avery winner.

“Reckon you’re glad we kept her, Marilla?” whispered Matthew, speaking
for the first time since he had entered the hall, when Anne had finished
her essay.

“It’s not the first time I’ve been glad,” retorted Marilla. “You do like
to rub things in, Matthew Cuthbert.”

Miss Barry, who was sitting behind them, leaned forward and poked
Marilla in the back with her parasol.

“Aren’t you proud of that Anne-girl? (Length: 670 characters)
- She felt something like
shame and remorse when she discovered that the sunrises behind the firs
and the pale pink buds opening in the garden gave her the old inrush of
gladness when she saw them--that Diana’s visits were pleasant to her
and that Diana’s merry words and ways moved her to laughter and
smiles--that, in brief, the beautiful world of blossom and love and
friendship had lost none of its power to please her fancy and thrill her
heart, that life still called to her with many insistent voices.

“It seems like disloyalty to Matthew, somehow, to find pleasure in
these things now that he has gone,” she said wistfully to Mrs. (Length: 647 characters)
- Did you ever know of anybody whose hair was red when she
was young, but got to be another color when she grew up?”

“No, I don’t know as I ever did,” said Marilla mercilessly, “and I
shouldn’t think it likely to happen in your case either.”

Anne sighed.

“Well, that is another hope gone. ‘My life is a perfect graveyard of
buried hopes.’ That’s a sentence I read in a book once, and I say it
over to comfort myself whenever I’m disappointed in anything.”

“I don’t see where the comforting comes in myself,” said Marilla.

“Why, because it sounds so nice and romantic, just as if I were a
heroine in a book, you know. (Length: 634 characters)
