Title: Carmilla


Top 10 Shortest Sentences:
- I will. (Words: 2)
- Listen, and wonder! (Words: 3)
- I will tell you. (Words: 4)
- Judge whether I say truth. (Words: 5)
- Our suspense did not last long. (Words: 6)
- Nothing can be more picturesque or solitary. (Words: 7)
- Eight or nine hundred a year does wonders. (Words: 8)
- You will see, however, by-and-by, why I mention it. (Words: 9)
- I and my father constituted the family at the schloss. (Words: 10)
- I devote my remaining days to tracking and extinguishing a monster. (Words: 11)

Top 10 Longest Words:
- anagrammatically (Length: 16 characters)
- unenforceability (Length: 16 characters)
- notwithstanding (Length: 15 characters)
- distinguishable (Length: 15 characters)
- accomplishments (Length: 15 characters)
- congratulations (Length: 15 characters)
- Notwithstanding (Length: 15 characters)
- unconsciousness (Length: 15 characters)
- conscientiously (Length: 15 characters)
- representations (Length: 15 characters)

Top 10 Most Common Letters:
- e (Occurrences: 17230)
- t (Occurrences: 11795)
- a (Occurrences: 11315)
- o (Occurrences: 10047)
- i (Occurrences: 9656)
- n (Occurrences: 9299)
- r (Occurrences: 8509)
- s (Occurrences: 8282)
- h (Occurrences: 7801)
- d (Occurrences: 6287)

Top 10 Most Common Words:
- the (Occurrences: 1609)
- and (Occurrences: 1123)
- i (Occurrences: 881)
- of (Occurrences: 814)
- a (Occurrences: 761)
- to (Occurrences: 720)
- in (Occurrences: 582)
- was (Occurrences: 429)
- my (Occurrences: 414)
- you (Occurrences: 397)
Top 10 Longest Sentences:
- The
two ladies assailed me together, and I must confess the refined and
beautiful face of the young lady, about which there was something
extremely engaging, as well as the elegance and fire of high birth,
determined me; and, quite overpowered, I submitted, and undertook, too
easily, the care of the young lady, whom her mother called Millarca.

“The Countess beckoned to her daughter, who listened with grave
attention while she told her, in general terms, how suddenly and
peremptorily she had been summoned, and also of the arrangement she had
made for her under my care, adding that I was one of her earliest and
most valued friends.

“I made, of course, such speeches as the case seemed to call for, and
found myself, on reflection, in a position which I did not half like.

“The gentleman in black returned, and very ceremoniously conducted the
lady from the room.

“The demeanor of this gentleman was such as to impress me with the
conviction that the Countess was a lady of very much more importance
than her modest title alone might have led me to assume.

“Her last charge to me was that no attempt was to be made to learn more
about her than I might have already guessed, until her return. (Length: 1225 characters)
- The young stranger had hardly lain down in her bed when she sank into a
deep sleep; and those ladies had left her in the care of a servant.

“How do you like our guest?” I asked, as soon as Madame entered. “Tell
me all about her?”

“I like her extremely,” answered Madame, “she is, I almost think, the
prettiest creature I ever saw; about your age, and so gentle and nice.”

“She is absolutely beautiful,” threw in Mademoiselle, who had peeped
for a moment into the stranger’s room.

“And such a sweet voice!” added Madame Perrodon.

“Did you remark a woman in the carriage, after it was set up again, who
did not get out,” inquired Mademoiselle, “but only looked from the
window?”

“No, we had not seen her.”

Then she described a hideous black woman, with a sort of colored turban
on her head, and who was gazing all the time from the carriage window,
nodding and grinning derisively towards the ladies, with gleaming eyes
and large white eyeballs, and her teeth set as if in fury.

“Did you remark what an ill-looking pack of men the servants were?”
asked Madame.

“Yes,” said my father, who had just come in, “ugly, hang-dog looking
fellows as ever I beheld in my life. (Length: 1202 characters)
- Mademoiselle laughed, but I fancied that Madame Perrodon looked
anxious.

“By-the-by,” said Mademoiselle, laughing, “the long lime tree walk,
behind Carmilla’s bedroom window, is haunted!”

“Nonsense!” exclaimed Madame, who probably thought the theme rather
inopportune, “and who tells that story, my dear?”

“Martin says that he came up twice, when the old yard gate was being
repaired, before sunrise, and twice saw the same female figure walking
down the lime tree avenue.”

“So he well might, as long as there are cows to milk in the river
fields,” said Madame.

“I daresay; but Martin chooses to be frightened, and never did I see
fool more frightened.”

“You must not say a word about it to Carmilla, because she can see down
that walk from her room window,” I interposed, “and she is, if
possible, a greater coward than I.”

Carmilla came down rather later than usual that day.

“I was so frightened last night,” she said, so soon as were together,
“and I am sure I should have seen something dreadful if it had not been
for that charm I bought from the poor little hunchback whom I called
such hard names. (Length: 1141 characters)
- Mademoiselle related that her cousin, who was mate of a
merchant ship, having taken a nap on deck on such a night, lying on his
back, with his face full in the light on the moon, had wakened, after a
dream of an old woman clawing him by the cheek, with his features
horribly drawn to one side; and his countenance had never quite
recovered its equilibrium.

“The moon, this night,” she said, “is full of idyllic and magnetic
influence—and see, when you look behind you at the front of the schloss
how all its windows flash and twinkle with that silvery splendor, as if
unseen hands had lighted up the rooms to receive fairy guests.”

There are indolent styles of the spirits in which, indisposed to talk
ourselves, the talk of others is pleasant to our listless ears; and I
gazed on, pleased with the tinkle of the ladies’ conversation.

“I have got into one of my moping moods tonight,” said my father, after
a silence, and quoting Shakespeare, whom, by way of keeping up our
English, he used to read aloud, he said:

“‘In truth I know not why I am so sad. (Length: 1077 characters)
- But although there was anger and detestation, at
times, in the old General’s manner, there was nothing flighty.

“There remains to me,” he said, as we passed under the heavy arch of
the Gothic church—for its dimensions would have justified its being so
styled—“but one object which can interest me during the few years that
remain to me on earth, and that is to wreak on her the vengeance which,
I thank God, may still be accomplished by a mortal arm.”

“What vengeance can you mean?” asked my father, in increasing
amazement.

“I mean, to decapitate the monster,” he answered, with a fierce flush,
and a stamp that echoed mournfully through the hollow ruin, and his
clenched hand was at the same moment raised, as if it grasped the
handle of an axe, while he shook it ferociously in the air.

“What?” exclaimed my father, more than ever bewildered.

“To strike her head off.”

“Cut her head off!”

“Aye, with a hatchet, with a spade, or with anything that can cleave
through her murderous throat. (Length: 1021 characters)
- There was plainly something on his mind which he did not choose to
divulge.

“Papa, darling, will you tell me this?” said I, suddenly laying my hand
on his arm, and looking, I am sure, imploringly in his face.

“Perhaps,” he answered, smoothing my hair caressingly over my eyes.

“Does the doctor think me very ill?”

“No, dear; he thinks, if right steps are taken, you will be quite well
again, at least, on the high road to a complete recovery, in a day or
two,” he answered, a little dryly. “I wish our good friend, the
General, had chosen any other time; that is, I wish you had been
perfectly well to receive him.”

“But do tell me, papa,” I insisted, “what does he think is the matter
with me?”

“Nothing; you must not plague me with questions,” he answered, with
more irritation than I ever remember him to have displayed before; and
seeing that I looked wounded, I suppose, he kissed me, and added, “You
shall know all about it in a day or two; that is, all that I know. (Length: 1000 characters)
- I had a dream of something black coming round my bed,
and I awoke in a perfect horror, and I really thought, for some
seconds, I saw a dark figure near the chimneypiece, but I felt under my
pillow for my charm, and the moment my fingers touched it, the figure
disappeared, and I felt quite certain, only that I had it by me, that
something frightful would have made its appearance, and, perhaps,
throttled me, as it did those poor people we heard of.

“Well, listen to me,” I began, and recounted my adventure, at the
recital of which she appeared horrified.

“And had you the charm near you?” she asked, earnestly.

“No, I had dropped it into a china vase in the drawing room, but I
shall certainly take it with me tonight, as you have so much faith in
it.”

At this distance of time I cannot tell you, or even understand, how I
overcame my horror so effectually as to lie alone in my room that
night. (Length: 921 characters)
- In silence, slowly we walked down to the drawbridge, where the
beautiful landscape opened before us.

“And so you were thinking of the night I came here?” she almost
whispered.

“Are you glad I came?”

“Delighted, dear Carmilla,” I answered.

“And you asked for the picture you think like me, to hang in your
room,” she murmured with a sigh, as she drew her arm closer about my
waist, and let her pretty head sink upon my shoulder. “How romantic you
are, Carmilla,” I said. “Whenever you tell me your story, it will be
made up chiefly of some one great romance.”

She kissed me silently.

“I am sure, Carmilla, you have been in love; that there is, at this
moment, an affair of the heart going on.”

“I have been in love with no one, and never shall,” she whispered,
“unless it should be with you.”

How beautiful she looked in the moonlight! (Length: 866 characters)
- These rustics
preserve the local traditions of great families, whose stories die out
among the rich and titled so soon as the families themselves become
extinct.”

“We have a portrait, at home, of Mircalla, the Countess Karnstein;
should you like to see it?” asked my father.

“Time enough, dear friend,” replied the General. “I believe that I have
seen the original; and one motive which has led me to you earlier than
I at first intended, was to explore the chapel which we are now
approaching.”

“What! see the Countess Mircalla,” exclaimed my father; “why, she has
been dead more than a century!”

“Not so dead as you fancy, I am told,” answered the General.

“I confess, General, you puzzle me utterly,” replied my father, looking
at him, I fancied, for a moment with a return of the suspicion I
detected before. (Length: 837 characters)
- Then he advanced to the window with many smiles and salutations, and
his hat in his left hand, his fiddle under his arm, and with a fluency
that never took breath, he gabbled a long advertisement of all his
accomplishments, and the resources of the various arts which he placed
at our service, and the curiosities and entertainments which it was in
his power, at our bidding, to display.

“Will your ladyships be pleased to buy an amulet against the oupire,
which is going like the wolf, I hear, through these woods,” he said
dropping his hat on the pavement. “They are dying of it right and left
and here is a charm that never fails; only pinned to the pillow, and
you may laugh in his face.”

These charms consisted of oblong slips of vellum, with cabalistic
ciphers and diagrams upon them. (Length: 806 characters)
