Title: Cranford


Top 10 Shortest Sentences:
- CHAPTER II. (Words: 2)
- My poor father! (Words: 3)
- But she was inexorable. (Words: 4)
- How selfish I have been! (Words: 5)
- Her face was round and dimpled. (Words: 6)
- Equal, indeed! she knew they were superior. (Words: 7)
- What could they do if they were there? (Words: 8)
- My next visit to Cranford was in the summer. (Words: 9)
- No nursing—no energetic strong-minded woman could help Miss Brown now. (Words: 10)
- It was a word not to be mentioned to ears polite. (Words: 11)

Top 10 Longest Words:
- responsibilities (Length: 16 characters)
- incomprehensible (Length: 16 characters)
- unenforceability (Length: 16 characters)
- notwithstanding (Length: 15 characters)
- condescendingly (Length: 15 characters)
- characteristics (Length: 15 characters)
- congratulations (Length: 15 characters)
- accomplishments (Length: 15 characters)
- straightforward (Length: 15 characters)
- representations (Length: 15 characters)

Top 10 Most Common Letters:
- e (Occurrences: 39271)
- t (Occurrences: 28073)
- a (Occurrences: 25834)
- o (Occurrences: 24227)
- n (Occurrences: 21512)
- s (Occurrences: 20991)
- i (Occurrences: 20954)
- h (Occurrences: 19229)
- r (Occurrences: 18997)
- d (Occurrences: 14892)

Top 10 Most Common Words:
- the (Occurrences: 3198)
- and (Occurrences: 2646)
- to (Occurrences: 2292)
- of (Occurrences: 1901)
- i (Occurrences: 1630)
- a (Occurrences: 1543)
- in (Occurrences: 1304)
- was (Occurrences: 1284)
- she (Occurrences: 1181)
- her (Occurrences: 1012)
Top 10 Longest Sentences:
- My father was a man, and I know
the sex pretty well.”

She had talked herself out of breath, and we should have been very glad
to fill up the necessary pause as chorus, but we did not exactly know
what to say, or which man had suggested this diatribe against the sex;
so we only joined in generally, with a grave shake of the head, and a
soft murmur of “They are very incomprehensible, certainly!”

“Now, only think,” said she.  “There, I have undergone the risk of
having one of my remaining teeth drawn (for one is terribly at the mercy
of any surgeon-dentist; and I, for one, always speak them fair till I
have got my mouth out of their clutches), and, after all, Mr Hoggins is
too much of a man to own that he was robbed last night.”

“Not robbed!” exclaimed the chorus.

“Don’t tell me!” Miss Pole exclaimed, angry that we could be for a
moment imposed upon.  “I believe he was robbed, just as Betty told me,
and he is ashamed to own it; and, to be sure, it was very silly of him
to be robbed just at his own door; I daresay he feels that such a thing
won’t raise him in the eyes of Cranford society, and is anxious to
conceal it—but he need not have tried to impose upon me, by saying I
must have heard an exaggerated account of some petty theft of a neck of
mutton, which, it seems, was stolen out of the safe in his yard last
week; he had the impertinence to add, he believed that that was taken by
the cat. (Length: 1441 characters)
- But when he had gone downstairs, I bethought me that I had
dropped my glove in the Assembly Room (it was safe in my muff all the
time, but I never found it till afterwards); so I went back, and, just
as I was creeping up the passage left on one side of the great screen
that goes nearly across the room, who should I see but the very same
gentleman that had met me before, and passed me on the stairs, coming
now forwards from the inner part of the room, to which there is no
entrance—you remember, Miss Matty—and just repeating, in his pretty
broken English, the inquiry if I had any business there—I don’t mean
that he put it quite so bluntly, but he seemed very determined that I
should not pass the screen—so, of course, I explained about my glove,
which, curiously enough, I found at that very moment.”

Miss Pole, then, had seen the conjuror—the real, live conjuror! and
numerous were the questions we all asked her.  “Had he a beard?”  “Was
he young, or old?”  “Fair, or dark?”  “Did he look”—(unable to shape my
question prudently, I put it in another form)—“How did he look?”  In
short, Miss Pole was the heroine of the evening, owing to her morning’s
encounter. (Length: 1189 characters)
- We were thankful, as Miss Pole desired us to be, that we had never been
married; but I think, of the two, we were even more thankful that the
robbers had left Cranford; at least I judge so from a speech of Miss
Matty’s that evening, as we sat over the fire, in which she evidently
looked upon a husband as a great protector against thieves, burglars,
and ghosts; and said that she did not think that she should dare to be
always warning young people against matrimony, as Miss Pole did
continually; to be sure, marriage was a risk, as she saw, now she had
had some experience; but she remembered the time when she had looked
forward to being married as much as any one.

“Not to any particular person, my dear,” said she, hastily checking
herself up, as if she were afraid of having admitted too much; “only the
old story, you know, of ladies always saying, ‘_When_ I marry,’ and
gentlemen, ‘_If_ I marry.’”  It was a joke spoken in rather a sad tone,
and I doubt if either of us smiled; but I could not see Miss Matty’s
face by the flickering fire-light. (Length: 1071 characters)
- She came into the drawing-room at tea-time,
but it was evidently an effort to her; and, as if to make up for some
reproachful feeling against her late sister, Miss Jenkyns, which had
been troubling her all the afternoon, and for which she now felt
penitent, she kept telling me how good and how clever Deborah was in her
youth; how she used to settle what gowns they were to wear at all the
parties (faint, ghostly ideas of grim parties, far away in the distance,
when Miss Matty and Miss Pole were young!); and how Deborah and her
mother had started the benefit society for the poor, and taught girls
cooking and plain sewing; and how Deborah had once danced with a lord;
and how she used to visit at Sir Peter Arley’s, and tried to remodel the
quiet rectory establishment on the plans of Arley Hall, where they kept
thirty servants; and how she had nursed Miss Matty through a long, long
illness, of which I had never heard before, but which I now dated in my
own mind as following the dismissal of the suit of Mr Holbrook. (Length: 1039 characters)
- Miss Pole drew herself up at
this remark of Lady Glenmire’s, and said “that she wished she could
agree with her as to the very small reason we had had for alarm, but
with the recollection of a man disguised as a woman who had endeavoured
to force himself into her house while his confederates waited outside;
with the knowledge gained from Lady Glenmire herself, of the footprints
seen on Mrs Jamieson’s flower borders; with the fact before her of the
audacious robbery committed on Mr Hoggins at his own door”—But here Lady
Glenmire broke in with a very strong expression of doubt as to whether
this last story was not an entire fabrication founded upon the theft of
a cat; she grew so red while she was saying all this that I was not
surprised at Miss Pole’s manner of bridling up, and I am certain, if
Lady Glenmire had not been “her ladyship,” we should have had a more
emphatic contradiction than the “Well, to be sure!” and similar
fragmentary ejaculations, which were all that she ventured upon in my
lady’s presence. (Length: 1039 characters)
- The only fact I gained from this conversation was that certainly Peter
had last been heard of in India, “or that neighbourhood”; and that this
scanty intelligence of his whereabouts had reached Cranford in the year
when Miss Pole had brought her Indian muslin gown, long since worn out
(we washed it and mended it, and traced its decline and fall into a
window-blind before we could go on); and in a year when Wombwell came to
Cranford, because Miss Matty had wanted to see an elephant in order that
she might the better imagine Peter riding on one; and had seen a
boa-constrictor too, which was more than she wished to imagine in her
fancy-pictures of Peter’s locality; and in a year when Miss Jenkyns had
learnt some piece of poetry off by heart, and used to say, at all the
Cranford parties, how Peter was “surveying mankind from China to Peru,”
which everybody had thought very grand, and rather appropriate, because
India was between China and Peru, if you took care to turn the globe to
the left instead of the right. (Length: 1037 characters)
- My father was
amongst them, meaning, he said, to ask them to walk into the garden with
him, and admire the beautiful vegetable production, when—oh, my dear, I
tremble to think of it—he looked through the rails himself, and saw—I
don’t know what he thought he saw, but old Clare told me his face went
quite grey-white with anger, and his eyes blazed out under his frowning
black brows; and he spoke out—oh, so terribly!—and bade them all stop
where they were—not one of them to go, not one of them to stir a step;
and, swift as light, he was in at the garden door, and down the Filbert
walk, and seized hold of poor Peter, and tore his clothes off his
back—bonnet, shawl, gown, and all—and threw the pillow among the people
over the railings: and then he was very, very angry indeed, and before
all the people he lifted up his cane and flogged Peter!

“My dear, that boy’s trick, on that sunny day, when all seemed going
straight and well, broke my mother’s heart, and changed my father for
life. (Length: 1011 characters)
- I wished I could have prevented her from being present
at my instructions to Martha, for she frequently cut in with some fresh
direction, muddling the poor girl’s mind as she stood open-mouthed,
listening to us both.

“Hand the vegetables round,” said I (foolishly, I see now—for it was
aiming at more than we could accomplish with quietness and simplicity);
and then, seeing her look bewildered, I added, “take the vegetables
round to people, and let them help themselves.”

“And mind you go first to the ladies,” put in Miss Matilda.  “Always go
to the ladies before gentlemen when you are waiting.”

“I’ll do it as you tell me, ma’am,” said Martha; “but I like lads best.”

We felt very uncomfortable and shocked at this speech of Martha’s, yet I
don’t think she meant any harm; and, on the whole, she attended very
well to our directions, except that she “nudged” the Major when he did
not help himself as soon as she expected to the potatoes, while she was
handing them round. (Length: 1000 characters)
- We had been talking of the signor’s rapid recovery since
the warmer weather had set in, and praising Mr Hoggins’s skill, and
lamenting his want of refinement and manner (it seems a curious
coincidence that this should have been our subject, but so it was), when
a knock was heard—a caller’s knock—three distinct taps—and we were
flying (that is to say, Miss Matty could not walk very fast, having had
a touch of rheumatism) to our rooms, to change cap and collars, when
Miss Pole arrested us by calling out, as she came up the stairs, “Don’t
go—I can’t wait—it is not twelve, I know—but never mind your dress—I
must speak to you.”  We did our best to look as if it was not we who had
made the hurried movement, the sound of which she had heard; for, of
course, we did not like to have it supposed that we had any old clothes
that it was convenient to wear out in the “sanctuary of home,” as Miss
Jenkyns once prettily called the back parlour, where she was tying up
preserves. (Length: 990 characters)
- I was pleasantly surprised, therefore, by
receiving a letter from Miss Pole (who had always come in for a
supplementary week after my annual visit to Miss Jenkyns) proposing that
I should go and stay with her; and then, in a couple of days after my
acceptance, came a note from Miss Matty, in which, in a rather
circuitous and very humble manner, she told me how much pleasure I
should confer if I could spend a week or two with her, either before or
after I had been at Miss Pole’s; “for,” she said, “since my dear
sister’s death I am well aware I have no attractions to offer; it is
only to the kindness of my friends that I can owe their company.”

Of course I promised to come to dear Miss Matty as soon as I had ended
my visit to Miss Pole; and the day after my arrival at Cranford I went
to see her, much wondering what the house would be like without Miss
Jenkyns, and rather dreading the changed aspect of things. (Length: 935 characters)
