Title: Crime and Punishment


Top 10 Shortest Sentences:
- From compassion? (Words: 2)
- Hence the pot-house! (Words: 3)
- You are too quick.... (Words: 4)
- Am I capable of _that_? (Words: 5)
- A few months later Dostoevsky died. (Words: 6)
- Dostoevsky was the son of a doctor. (Words: 7)
- It’s because I chatter that I do nothing. (Words: 8)
- And I went on lying there, just as before.... (Words: 9)
- He had successfully avoided meeting his landlady on the staircase. (Words: 10)
- In the corner a light was burning before a small ikon. (Words: 11)

Top 10 Longest Words:
- disproportionately (Length: 18 characters)
- _psychologically_ (Length: 17 characters)
- indistinguishable (Length: 17 characters)
- misunderstanding (Length: 16 characters)
- superciliousness (Length: 16 characters)
- enthusiastically (Length: 16 characters)
- disproportionate (Length: 16 characters)
- circumstantially (Length: 16 characters)
- indiscriminately (Length: 16 characters)
- unenforceability (Length: 16 characters)

Top 10 Most Common Letters:
- e (Occurrences: 105061)
- t (Occurrences: 80817)
- a (Occurrences: 74044)
- o (Occurrences: 72245)
- n (Occurrences: 63158)
- i (Occurrences: 62623)
- h (Occurrences: 56020)
- s (Occurrences: 53508)
- r (Occurrences: 48505)
- d (Occurrences: 39196)

Top 10 Most Common Words:
- the (Occurrences: 8008)
- and (Occurrences: 7036)
- to (Occurrences: 5495)
- he (Occurrences: 4892)
- a (Occurrences: 4663)
- i (Occurrences: 4402)
- you (Occurrences: 4119)
- of (Occurrences: 3930)
- it (Occurrences: 3461)
- that (Occurrences: 3294)
Top 10 Longest Sentences:
- Sonia flushed crimson, and Katerina Ivanovna
suddenly burst into tears, immediately observing that she was “nervous
and silly, that she was too much upset, that it was time to finish, and
as the dinner was over, it was time to hand round the tea.”

At that moment, Amalia Ivanovna, deeply aggrieved at taking no part in
the conversation, and not being listened to, made one last effort,
and with secret misgivings ventured on an exceedingly deep and weighty
observation, that “in the future boarding-school she would have to pay
particular attention to _die Wäsche_, and that there certainly must be a
good _dame_ to look after the linen, and secondly that the young ladies
must not novels at night read.”

Katerina Ivanovna, who certainly was upset and very tired, as well as
heartily sick of the dinner, at once cut short Amalia Ivanovna, saying
“she knew nothing about it and was talking nonsense, that it was the
business of the laundry maid, and not of the directress of a high-class
boarding-school to look after _die Wäsche_, and as for novel-reading,
that was simply rudeness, and she begged her to be silent.” Amalia
Ivanovna fired up and getting angry observed that she only “meant her
good,” and that “she had meant her very good,” and that “it was long
since she had paid her _gold_ for the lodgings.”

Katerina Ivanovna at once “set her down,” saying that it was a lie to
say she wished her good, because only yesterday when her dead husband
was lying on the table, she had worried her about the lodgings. (Length: 1543 characters)
- Katerina Ivanovna flushed
crimson and at once said aloud across the table that the man who sent it
was “a drunken ass!”

Amalia Ivanovna was foreseeing something amiss, and at the same time
deeply wounded by Katerina Ivanovna’s haughtiness, and to restore the
good-humour of the company and raise herself in their esteem she began,
apropos of nothing, telling a story about an acquaintance of hers “Karl
from the chemist’s,” who was driving one night in a cab, and that “the
cabman wanted him to kill, and Karl very much begged him not to kill,
and wept and clasped hands, and frightened and from fear pierced his
heart.” Though Katerina Ivanovna smiled, she observed at once that
Amalia Ivanovna ought not to tell anecdotes in Russian; the latter was
still more offended, and she retorted that her “_Vater aus Berlin_ was a
very important man, and always went with his hands in pockets.” Katerina
Ivanovna could not restrain herself and laughed so much that Amalia
Ivanovna lost patience and could scarcely control herself.

“Listen to the owl!” Katerina Ivanovna whispered at once, her
good-humour almost restored, “she meant to say he kept his hands in
his pockets, but she said he put his hands in people’s pockets.
(Cough-cough.) And have you noticed, Rodion Romanovitch, that all these
Petersburg foreigners, the Germans especially, are all stupider than
we! (Length: 1387 characters)
- What do you want?”

Raskolnikov made no reply, but stood beside them lost in thought.

“He’s been to look at the flat,” said the elder workman, coming forward.

“Which flat?”

“Where we are at work. ‘Why have you washed away the blood?’ says he.
‘There has been a murder here,’ says he, ‘and I’ve come to take it.’
And he began ringing at the bell, all but broke it. ‘Come to the police
station,’ says he. ‘I’ll tell you everything there.’ He wouldn’t leave
us.”

The porter looked at Raskolnikov, frowning and perplexed.

“Who are you?” he shouted as impressively as he could.

“I am Rodion Romanovitch Raskolnikov, formerly a student, I live in
Shil’s house, not far from here, flat Number 14, ask the porter, he
knows me.” Raskolnikov said all this in a lazy, dreamy voice, not
turning round, but looking intently into the darkening street.

“Why have you been to the flat?”

“To look at it.”

“What is there to look at?”

“Take him straight to the police station,” the man in the long coat
jerked in abruptly. (Length: 1043 characters)
- Listening to
Sonia with dignity, Katerina Ivanovna inquired with equal dignity how
Pyotr Petrovitch was, then at once whispered almost aloud to
Raskolnikov that it certainly would have been strange for a man of
Pyotr Petrovitch’s position and standing to find himself in such
“extraordinary company,” in spite of his devotion to her family and his
old friendship with her father.

“That’s why I am so grateful to you, Rodion Romanovitch, that you have
not disdained my hospitality, even in such surroundings,” she added
almost aloud. “But I am sure that it was only your special affection for
my poor husband that has made you keep your promise.”

Then once more with pride and dignity she scanned her visitors, and
suddenly inquired aloud across the table of the deaf man: “Wouldn’t he
have some more meat, and had he been given some wine?” The old man made
no answer and for a long while could not understand what he was asked,
though his neighbours amused themselves by poking and shaking him. (Length: 1013 characters)
- Possibly Katerina Ivanovna felt obliged to
honour the memory of the deceased “suitably,” that all the lodgers,
and still more Amalia Ivanovna, might know “that he was in no way their
inferior, and perhaps very much their superior,” and that no one had the
right “to turn up his nose at him.” Perhaps the chief element was that
peculiar “poor man’s pride,” which compels many poor people to spend
their last savings on some traditional social ceremony, simply in order
to do “like other people,” and not to “be looked down upon.” It is very
probable, too, that Katerina Ivanovna longed on this occasion, at
the moment when she seemed to be abandoned by everyone, to show those
“wretched contemptible lodgers” that she knew “how to do things, how
to entertain” and that she had been brought up “in a genteel, she might
almost say aristocratic colonel’s family” and had not been meant for
sweeping floors and washing the children’s rags at night. (Length: 956 characters)
- Let me tell you on the contrary that you ought to show
particular delicacy and consideration for us now, because we have thrown
up everything, and have come here relying on you, and so we are in any
case in a sense in your hands.”

“That is not quite true, Pulcheria Alexandrovna, especially at the
present moment, when the news has come of Marfa Petrovna’s legacy, which
seems indeed very apropos, judging from the new tone you take to me,” he
added sarcastically.

“Judging from that remark, we may certainly presume that you were
reckoning on our helplessness,” Dounia observed irritably.

“But now in any case I cannot reckon on it, and I particularly desire
not to hinder your discussion of the secret proposals of Arkady
Ivanovitch Svidrigaïlov, which he has entrusted to your brother and
which have, I perceive, a great and possibly a very agreeable interest
for you.”

“Good heavens!” cried Pulcheria Alexandrovna. (Length: 941 characters)
- But you remember everything!” Razumihin interrupted.

“That’s true,” Raskolnikov answered with special carefulness. “I
remember everything even to the slightest detail, and yet--why I did
that and went there and said that, I can’t clearly explain now.”

“A familiar phenomenon,” interposed Zossimov, “actions are sometimes
performed in a masterly and most cunning way, while the direction of the
actions is deranged and dependent on various morbid impressions--it’s
like a dream.”

“Perhaps it’s a good thing really that he should think me almost a
madman,” thought Raskolnikov.

“Why, people in perfect health act in the same way too,” observed
Dounia, looking uneasily at Zossimov.

“There is some truth in your observation,” the latter replied. “In that
sense we are certainly all not infrequently like madmen, but with the
slight difference that the deranged are somewhat madder, for we
must draw a line. (Length: 928 characters)
- For two hours they were sitting,
whispering together. ‘Semyon Zaharovitch is in the service again,
now, and receiving a salary,’ says she, ‘and he went himself to his
excellency and his excellency himself came out to him, made all the
others wait and led Semyon Zaharovitch by the hand before everybody into
his study.’ Do you hear, do you hear? ‘To be sure,’ says he, ‘Semyon
Zaharovitch, remembering your past services,’ says he, ‘and in spite
of your propensity to that foolish weakness, since you promise now and
since moreover we’ve got on badly without you,’ (do you hear, do you
hear;) ‘and so,’ says he, ‘I rely now on your word as a gentleman.’ And
all that, let me tell you, she has simply made up for herself, and not
simply out of wantonness, for the sake of bragging; no, she believes it
all herself, she amuses herself with her own fancies, upon my word she
does! (Length: 890 characters)
- All of a sudden there was a great uproar of shouting, singing
and the balalaïka, and from the tavern a number of big and very drunken
peasants came out, wearing red and blue shirts and coats thrown over
their shoulders.

“Get in, get in!” shouted one of them, a young thick-necked peasant with
a fleshy face red as a carrot. “I’ll take you all, get in!”

But at once there was an outbreak of laughter and exclamations in the
crowd.

“Take us all with a beast like that!”

“Why, Mikolka, are you crazy to put a nag like that in such a cart?”

“And this mare is twenty if she is a day, mates!”

“Get in, I’ll take you all,” Mikolka shouted again, leaping first into
the cart, seizing the reins and standing straight up in front. “The bay
has gone with Matvey,” he shouted from the cart--“and this brute, mates,
is just breaking my heart, I feel as if I could kill her. (Length: 886 characters)
- She went on to the nineteenth
verse:

“And many of the Jews came to Martha and Mary to comfort them concerning
their brother.

“Then Martha as soon as she heard that Jesus was coming went and met
Him: but Mary sat still in the house.

“Then said Martha unto Jesus, Lord, if Thou hadst been here, my brother
had not died.

“But I know that even now whatsoever Thou wilt ask of God, God will give
it Thee....”

Then she stopped again with a shamefaced feeling that her voice would
quiver and break again.

“Jesus said unto her, thy brother shall rise again.

“Martha saith unto Him, I know that he shall rise again in the
resurrection, at the last day.

“Jesus said unto her, I am the resurrection and the life: he that
believeth in Me though he were dead, yet shall he live.

“And whosoever liveth and believeth in Me shall never die. (Length: 859 characters)
