Title: Dracula


Top 10 Shortest Sentences:
- George’s Day. (Words: 2)
- Sleep well to-night. (Words: 3)
- Harker, to my house. (Words: 4)
- I had to hold on. (Words: 5)
- Bistritz._--Left Munich at 8:35 P. (Words: 6)
- What ought they to be in China? (Words: 7)
- I waited with a sick feeling of suspense. (Words: 8)
- Isten szek!”--“God’s seat!”--and he crossed himself reverently. (Words: 9)
- Here I stopped for the night at the Hotel Royale. (Words: 10)
- I have not yet been able to see it by daylight. (Words: 11)

Top 10 Longest Words:
- straightforwardly (Length: 17 characters)
- argumentativeness (Length: 17 characters)
- Transcendentalism (Length: 17 characters)
- acquaintanceship (Length: 16 characters)
- responsibilities (Length: 16 characters)
- enthusiastically (Length: 16 characters)
- unenforceability (Length: 16 characters)
- interrogatively (Length: 15 characters)
- philosophically (Length: 15 characters)
- materialisation (Length: 15 characters)

Top 10 Most Common Letters:
- e (Occurrences: 81733)
- t (Occurrences: 60088)
- a (Occurrences: 53773)
- o (Occurrences: 52035)
- n (Occurrences: 44936)
- h (Occurrences: 44085)
- i (Occurrences: 44067)
- s (Occurrences: 40597)
- r (Occurrences: 36504)
- d (Occurrences: 29241)

Top 10 Most Common Words:
- the (Occurrences: 8100)
- and (Occurrences: 5973)
- i (Occurrences: 4843)
- to (Occurrences: 4746)
- of (Occurrences: 3754)
- a (Occurrences: 3009)
- he (Occurrences: 2581)
- in (Occurrences: 2567)
- that (Occurrences: 2502)
- it (Occurrences: 2187)
Top 10 Longest Sentences:
- Can
you tell me why in the Pampas, ay and elsewhere, there are bats that
come at night and open the veins of cattle and horses and suck dry their
veins; how in some islands of the Western seas there are bats which hang
on the trees all day, and those who have seen describe as like giant
nuts or pods, and that when the sailors sleep on the deck, because that
it is hot, flit down on them, and then--and then in the morning are
found dead men, white as even Miss Lucy was?”

“Good God, Professor!” I said, starting up. “Do you mean to tell me that
Lucy was bitten by such a bat; and that such a thing is here in London
in the nineteenth century?” He waved his hand for silence, and went
on:--

“Can you tell me why the tortoise lives more long than generations of
men; why the elephant goes on and on till he have seen dynasties; and
why the parrot never die only of bite of cat or dog or other complaint? (Length: 921 characters)
- Title: Dracula


Author: Bram Stoker

Release date: October 1, 1995 [eBook #345]
                Most recently updated: November 12, 2023

Language: English



*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DRACULA ***



                                DRACULA

                                  _by_

                              Bram Stoker

                        [Illustration: colophon]

                                NEW YORK

                            GROSSET & DUNLAP

                              _Publishers_

      Copyright, 1897, in the United States of America, according
                   to Act of Congress, by Bram Stoker

                        [_All rights reserved._]

                      PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES
                                   AT
               THE COUNTRY LIFE PRESS, GARDEN CITY, N.Y. (Length: 875 characters)
- He held up his hand, and they all stopped; and I thought he
seemed to be saying: ‘All these lives will I give you, ay, and many more
and greater, through countless ages, if you will fall down and worship
me!’ And then a red cloud, like the colour of blood, seemed to close
over my eyes; and before I knew what I was doing, I found myself opening
the sash and saying to Him: ‘Come in, Lord and Master!’ The rats were
all gone, but He slid into the room through the sash, though it was only
open an inch wide--just as the Moon herself has often come in through
the tiniest crack and has stood before me in all her size and
splendour.”

His voice was weaker, so I moistened his lips with the brandy again, and
he continued; but it seemed as though his memory had gone on working in
the interval for his story was further advanced. (Length: 840 characters)
- This vampire which is
amongst us is of himself so strong in person as twenty men; he is of
cunning more than mortal, for his cunning be the growth of ages; he have
still the aids of necromancy, which is, as his etymology imply, the
divination by the dead, and all the dead that he can come nigh to are
for him at command; he is brute, and more than brute; he is devil in
callous, and the heart of him is not; he can, within limitations, appear
at will when, and where, and in any of the forms that are to him; he
can, within his range, direct the elements; the storm, the fog, the
thunder; he can command all the meaner things: the rat, and the owl, and
the bat--the moth, and the fox, and the wolf; he can grow and become
small; and he can at times vanish and come unknown. (Length: 785 characters)
- If we had a quick voyage it would be no to our
miscredit wi’ the owners, or no hurt to our traffic; an’ the Old Mon who
had served his ain purpose wad be decently grateful to us for no
hinderin’ him.” This mixture of simplicity and cunning, of superstition
and commercial reasoning, aroused Van Helsing, who said:--

“Mine friend, that Devil is more clever than he is thought by some; and
he know when he meet his match!” The skipper was not displeased with the
compliment, and went on:--

“When we got past the Bosphorus the men began to grumble; some o’ them,
the Roumanians, came and asked me to heave overboard a big box which had
been put on board by a queer lookin’ old man just before we had started
frae London. (Length: 732 characters)
- Oh, that I could give any idea of the
scene; of that sweet, sweet, good, good woman in all the radiant beauty
of her youth and animation, with the red scar on her forehead, of which
she was conscious, and which we saw with grinding of our
teeth--remembering whence and how it came; her loving kindness against
our grim hate; her tender faith against all our fears and doubting; and
we, knowing that so far as symbols went, she with all her goodness and
purity and faith, was outcast from God.

“Jonathan,” she said, and the word sounded like music on her lips it was
so full of love and tenderness, “Jonathan dear, and you all my true,
true friends, I want you to bear something in mind through all this
dreadful time. (Length: 730 characters)
- It seemed, however, that his poor
injured brain had been working in the interval, for, when he was quite
conscious, he looked at me piercingly with an agonised confusion which I
shall never forget, and said:--

“I must not deceive myself; it was no dream, but all a grim reality.”
Then his eyes roved round the room; as they caught sight of the two
figures sitting patiently on the edge of the bed he went on:--

“If I were not sure already, I would know from them.” For an instant his
eyes closed--not with pain or sleep but voluntarily, as though he were
bringing all his faculties to bear; when he opened them he said,
hurriedly, and with more energy than he had yet displayed:--

“Quick, Doctor, quick. (Length: 720 characters)
- INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause. (Length: 685 characters)
- Now we wish to get
into the house, but we have no key; is it not so?” I nodded.

“Now suppose that you were, in truth, the owner of that house, and could
not still get in; and think there was to you no conscience of the
housebreaker, what would you do?”

“I should get a respectable locksmith, and set him to work to pick the
lock for me.”

“And your police, they would interfere, would they not?”

“Oh, no! not if they knew the man was properly employed.”

“Then,” he looked at me as keenly as he spoke, “all that is in doubt is
the conscience of the employer, and the belief of your policemen as to
whether or no that employer has a good conscience or a bad one. (Length: 680 characters)
- Van
Helsing went on:--

“When once within that house we may find more clues; at any rate some of
us can remain there whilst the rest find the other places where there be
more earth-boxes--at Bermondsey and Mile End.”

Lord Godalming stood up. “I can be of some use here,” he said. “I shall
wire to my people to have horses and carriages where they will be most
convenient.”

“Look here, old fellow,” said Morris, “it is a capital idea to have all
ready in case we want to go horsebacking; but don’t you think that one
of your snappy carriages with its heraldic adornments in a byway of
Walworth or Mile End would attract too much attention for our purposes? (Length: 671 characters)
