Title: Dubliners


Top 10 Shortest Sentences:
- But no. (Words: 2)
- Tiresome old fool! (Words: 3)
- Tiresome old red-nosed imbecile! (Words: 4)
- James Flynn (formerly of S. (Words: 5)
- Now I knew they were true. (Words: 6)
- And that’s what stands to me now. (Words: 7)
- Old Cotter looked at me for a while. (Words: 8)
- There was a heavy odour in the room—the flowers. (Words: 9)
- I’m surprised at boys like you, educated, reading such stuff. (Words: 10)
- It murmured; and I understood that it desired to confess something. (Words: 11)

Top 10 Longest Words:
- autobiographical (Length: 16 characters)
- unenforceability (Length: 16 characters)
- interrogatively (Length: 15 characters)
- accomplishments (Length: 15 characters)
- philosophically (Length: 15 characters)
- argumentatively (Length: 15 characters)
- disappointments (Length: 15 characters)
- thoughtlessness (Length: 15 characters)
- appropriateness (Length: 15 characters)
- compassionately (Length: 15 characters)

Top 10 Most Common Letters:
- e (Occurrences: 37571)
- t (Occurrences: 26045)
- a (Occurrences: 24804)
- o (Occurrences: 22583)
- n (Occurrences: 20760)
- h (Occurrences: 20537)
- i (Occurrences: 19876)
- s (Occurrences: 18758)
- r (Occurrences: 17550)
- d (Occurrences: 14174)

Top 10 Most Common Words:
- the (Occurrences: 4249)
- and (Occurrences: 2300)
- of (Occurrences: 1989)
- to (Occurrences: 1835)
- he (Occurrences: 1714)
- a (Occurrences: 1644)
- was (Occurrences: 1162)
- his (Occurrences: 1159)
- in (Occurrences: 1115)
- had (Occurrences: 811)
Top 10 Longest Sentences:
- Gabriel had known her when she was a child and used to sit on
the lowest step nursing a rag doll.

“Yes, Lily,” he answered, “and I think we’re in for a night of it.”

He looked up at the pantry ceiling, which was shaking with the stamping
and shuffling of feet on the floor above, listened for a moment to the
piano and then glanced at the girl, who was folding his overcoat
carefully at the end of a shelf.

“Tell me, Lily,” he said in a friendly tone, “do you still go to
school?”

“O no, sir,” she answered. “I’m done schooling this year and more.”

“O, then,” said Gabriel gaily, “I suppose we’ll be going to your
wedding one of these fine days with your young man, eh?”

The girl glanced back at him over her shoulder and said with great
bitterness:

“The men that is now is only all palaver and what they can get out of
you.”

Gabriel coloured as if he felt he had made a mistake and, without
looking at her, kicked off his goloshes and flicked actively with his
muffler at his patent-leather shoes. (Length: 1032 characters)
- She’s from Connacht, isn’t she?”

“Her people are,” said Gabriel shortly.

“But you will come, won’t you?” said Miss Ivors, laying her warm hand
eagerly on his arm.

“The fact is,” said Gabriel, “I have just arranged to go——”

“Go where?” asked Miss Ivors.

“Well, you know, every year I go for a cycling tour with some fellows
and so——”

“But where?” asked Miss Ivors.

“Well, we usually go to France or Belgium or perhaps Germany,” said
Gabriel awkwardly.

“And why do you go to France and Belgium,” said Miss Ivors, “instead of
visiting your own land?”

“Well,” said Gabriel, “it’s partly to keep in touch with the languages
and partly for a change.”

“And haven’t you your own language to keep in touch with—Irish?” asked
Miss Ivors.

“Well,” said Gabriel, “if it comes to that, you know, Irish is not my
language.”

Their neighbours had turned to listen to the cross-examination. (Length: 915 characters)
- He
wore a very high double collar and a wide-brimmed bowler hat.

“Hello, Crofton!” said Mr Henchy to the fat man. “Talk of the
devil....”

“Where did the boose come from?” asked the young man. “Did the cow
calve?”

“O, of course, Lyons spots the drink first thing!” said Mr O’Connor,
laughing.

“Is that the way you chaps canvass,” said Mr Lyons, “and Crofton and I
out in the cold and rain looking for votes?”

“Why, blast your soul,” said Mr Henchy, “I’d get more votes in five
minutes than you two’d get in a week.”

“Open two bottles of stout, Jack,” said Mr O’Connor.

“How can I?” said the old man, “when there’s no corkscrew?”

“Wait now, wait now!” said Mr Henchy, getting up quickly. “Did you ever
see this little trick?”

He took two bottles from the table and, carrying them to the fire, put
them on the hob. (Length: 846 characters)
- She
did not feel in the least hungry and she had already overstayed her
time.

“But only for ten minutes, Molly,” said Mrs Conroy. “That won’t delay
you.”

“To take a pick itself,” said Mary Jane, “after all your dancing.”

“I really couldn’t,” said Miss Ivors.

“I am afraid you didn’t enjoy yourself at all,” said Mary Jane
hopelessly.

“Ever so much, I assure you,” said Miss Ivors, “but you really must let
me run off now.”

“But how can you get home?” asked Mrs Conroy.

“O, it’s only two steps up the quay.”

Gabriel hesitated a moment and said:

“If you will allow me, Miss Ivors, I’ll see you home if you are really
obliged to go.”

But Miss Ivors broke away from them.

“I won’t hear of it,” she cried. “For goodness’ sake go in to your
suppers and don’t mind me. (Length: 801 characters)
- Why
did they never play the grand old operas now, he asked, _Dinorah,
Lucrezia Borgia?_ Because they could not get the voices to sing them:
that was why.

“Oh, well,” said Mr Bartell D’Arcy, “I presume there are as good
singers today as there were then.”

“Where are they?” asked Mr Browne defiantly.

“In London, Paris, Milan,” said Mr Bartell D’Arcy warmly. “I suppose
Caruso, for example, is quite as good, if not better than any of the
men you have mentioned.”

“Maybe so,” said Mr Browne. “But I may tell you I doubt it strongly.”

“O, I’d give anything to hear Caruso sing,” said Mary Jane.

“For me,” said Aunt Kate, who had been picking a bone, “there was only
one tenor. (Length: 698 characters)
- No, damn it
all, I bar the candles!”

He shook his head with farcical gravity.

“Listen to that!” said his wife.

“I bar the candles,” said Mr Kernan, conscious of having created an
effect on his audience and continuing to shake his head to and fro. “I
bar the magic-lantern business.”

Everyone laughed heartily.

“There’s a nice Catholic for you!” said his wife.

“No candles!” repeated Mr Kernan obdurately. “That’s off!”


The transept of the Jesuit Church in Gardiner Street was almost full;
and still at every moment gentlemen entered from the side door and,
directed by the lay-brother, walked on tiptoe along the aisles until
they found seating accommodation. (Length: 688 characters)
- INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause. (Length: 685 characters)
- For when I
view them in turn, whether it be our chief hostess herself, whose good
heart, whose too good heart, has become a byword with all who know her,
or her sister, who seems to be gifted with perennial youth and whose
singing must have been a surprise and a revelation to us all tonight,
or, last but not least, when I consider our youngest hostess, talented,
cheerful, hard-working and the best of nieces, I confess, Ladies and
Gentlemen, that I do not know to which of them I should award the
prize.”

Gabriel glanced down at his aunts and, seeing the large smile on Aunt
Julia’s face and the tears which had risen to Aunt Kate’s eyes,
hastened to his close. (Length: 677 characters)
- The explanation was not very
clear for Mr Browne grinned and said:

“I like that idea very much but wouldn’t a comfortable spring bed do
them as well as a coffin?”

“The coffin,” said Mary Jane, “is to remind them of their last end.”

As the subject had grown lugubrious it was buried in a silence of the
table during which Mrs Malins could be heard saying to her neighbour in
an indistinct undertone:

“They are very good men, the monks, very pious men.”

The raisins and almonds and figs and apples and oranges and chocolates
and sweets were now passed about the table and Aunt Julia invited all
the guests to have either port or sherry. (Length: 655 characters)
- Those days might, without exaggeration,
be called spacious days: and if they are gone beyond recall let us
hope, at least, that in gatherings such as this we shall still speak of
them with pride and affection, still cherish in our hearts the memory
of those dead and gone great ones whose fame the world will not
willingly let die.”

“Hear, hear!” said Mr Browne loudly.

“But yet,” continued Gabriel, his voice falling into a softer
inflection, “there are always in gatherings such as this sadder
thoughts that will recur to our minds: thoughts of the past, of youth,
of changes, of absent faces that we miss here tonight. (Length: 635 characters)
