Title: History of Tom Jones, a Foundling


Top 10 Shortest Sentences:
- Her generosity. (Words: 2)
- Reader, take care. (Words: 3)
- The civility of chambermaids. (Words: 4)
- Chapter i -- Of love. (Words: 5)
- Chapter xii -- Containing love-letters, &c. (Words: 6)
- Chapter i -- Containing little or nothing. (Words: 7)
- Chapter i -- Containing five pages of paper. (Words: 8)
- BOOK IV -- CONTAINING THE TIME OF A YEAR. (Words: 9)
- Chapter ix -- Containing matters which will surprize the reader. (Words: 10)
- Chapter x -- A story told by Mr Supple, the curate. (Words: 11)

Top 10 Longest Words:
- disinterestedness (Length: 17 characters)
- misrepresentation (Length: 17 characters)
- unreasonableness (Length: 16 characters)
- disproportionate (Length: 16 characters)
- misconstructions (Length: 16 characters)
- misunderstanding (Length: 16 characters)
- indiscriminately (Length: 16 characters)
- impracticability (Length: 16 characters)
- incomprehensible (Length: 16 characters)
- characteristical (Length: 16 characters)

Top 10 Most Common Letters:
- e (Occurrences: 195330)
- t (Occurrences: 136383)
- o (Occurrences: 123448)
- a (Occurrences: 118635)
- i (Occurrences: 107299)
- n (Occurrences: 106114)
- h (Occurrences: 105307)
- s (Occurrences: 97323)
- r (Occurrences: 96773)
- d (Occurrences: 63103)

Top 10 Most Common Words:
- the (Occurrences: 17118)
- to (Occurrences: 11621)
- of (Occurrences: 10786)
- and (Occurrences: 8814)
- a (Occurrences: 7038)
- i (Occurrences: 6477)
- in (Occurrences: 5845)
- he (Occurrences: 5053)
- that (Occurrences: 4120)
- was (Occurrences: 4004)
Top 10 Longest Sentences:
- I am only afraid your
honour will forget such a poor man as an innkeeper; but, if your
ladyship should not, I hope you will remember what reward I
refused--refused! that is, I would have refused, and to be sure it may
be called refusing, for I might have had it certainly; and to be sure
you might have been in some houses;--but, for my part, would not
methinks for the world have your ladyship wrong me so much as to
imagine I ever thought of betraying you, even before I heard the good
news."

"What news, pray?" says Sophia, something eagerly.

"Hath not your ladyship heard it, then?" cries the landlord; "nay,
like enough, for I heard it only a few minutes ago; and if I had never
heard it, may the devil fly away with me this instant if I would have
betrayed your honour! no, if I would, may I--" Here he subjoined
several dreadful imprecations, which Sophia at last interrupted, and
begged to know what he meant by the news.--He was going to answer,
when Mrs Honour came running into the room, all pale and breathless,
and cried out, "Madam, we are all undone, all ruined, they are come,
they are come!" These words almost froze up the blood of Sophia; but
Mrs Fitzpatrick asked Honour who were come?--"Who?" answered she,
"why, the French; several hundred thousands of them are landed, and we
shall be all murdered and ravished."

As a miser, who hath, in some well-built city, a cottage, value twenty
shillings, when at a distance he is alarmed with the news of a fire,
turns pale and trembles at his loss; but when he finds the beautiful
palaces only are burnt, and his own cottage remains safe, he comes
instantly to himself, and smiles at his good fortunes: or as (for we
dislike something in the former simile) the tender mother, when
terrified with the apprehension that her darling boy is drowned, is
struck senseless and almost dead with consternation; but when she is
told that little master is safe, and the Victory only, with twelve
hundred brave men, gone to the bottom, life and sense again return,
maternal fondness enjoys the sudden relief from all its fears, and the
general benevolence which at another time would have deeply felt the
dreadful catastrophe, lies fast asleep in her mind;--so Sophia, than
whom none was more capable of tenderly feeling the general calamity of
her country, found such immediate satisfaction from the relief of
those terrors she had of being overtaken by her father, that the
arrival of the French scarce made any impression on her. (Length: 2528 characters)
- Your worship looks like a good man, and, I hope, will
consider my honesty; for I might have kept every farthing, and nobody
ever the wiser." "I promise thee, upon my honour," cries Jones, "that
I know the right owner, and will restore it her." "Nay, your worship,"
answered the fellow, "may do as you please as to that; if you will but
give me my share, that is, one-half of the money, your honour may keep
the rest yourself if you please;" and concluded with swearing, by a
very vehement oath, "that he would never mention a syllable of it to
any man living."

"Lookee, friend," cries Jones, "the right owner shall certainly have
again all that she lost; and as for any farther gratuity, I really
cannot give it you at present; but let me know your name, and where
you live, and it is more than possible you may hereafter have further
reason to rejoice at this morning's adventure."

"I don't know what you mean by venture," cries the fellow; "it seems I
must venture whether you will return the lady her money or no; but I
hope your worship will consider--" "Come, come," said Partridge, "tell
his honour your name, and where you may be found; I warrant you will
never repent having put the money into his hands." The fellow, seeing
no hopes of recovering the possession of the pocket-book, at last
complied in giving in his name and place of abode, which Jones writ
upon a piece of paper with the pencil of Sophia; and then, placing the
paper in the same page where she had writ her name, he cried out,
"There, friend, you are the happiest man alive; I have joined your
name to that of an angel." "I don't know anything about angels,"
answered the fellow; "but I wish you would give me a little more
money, or else return me the pocket-book." Partridge now waxed wrath:
he called the poor cripple by several vile and opprobrious names, and
was absolutely proceeding to beat him, but Jones would not suffer any
such thing: and now, telling the fellow he would certainly find some
opportunity of serving him, Mr Jones departed as fast as his heels
would carry him; and Partridge, into whom the thoughts of the hundred
pound had infused new spirits, followed his leader; while the man, who
was obliged to stay behind, fell to cursing them both, as well as his
parents; "for had they," says he, "sent me to charity-school to learn
to write and read and cast accounts, I should have known the value of
these matters as well as other people."



Chapter v. (Length: 2495 characters)
- Nay, perhaps, it will be credited,
that the villain went two days afterwards with some young ladies to
the play of Hamlet; and with an unaltered countenance heard one of the
ladies, who little suspected how near she was to the person, cry out,
"Good God! if the man that murdered Mr Derby was now present!"
manifesting in this a more seared and callous conscience than even
Nero himself; of whom we are told by Suetonius, "that the
consciousness of his guilt, after the death of his mother, became
immediately intolerable, and so continued; nor could all the
congratulations of the soldiers, of the senate, and the people, allay
the horrors of his conscience."

But now, on the other hand, should I tell my reader, that I had known
a man whose penetrating genius had enabled him to raise a large
fortune in a way where no beginning was chaulked out to him; that he
had done this with the most perfect preservation of his integrity, and
not only without the least injustice or injury to any one individual
person, but with the highest advantage to trade, and a vast increase
of the public revenue; that he had expended one part of the income of
this fortune in discovering a taste superior to most, by works where
the highest dignity was united with the purest simplicity, and another
part in displaying a degree of goodness superior to all men, by acts
of charity to objects whose only recommendations were their merits, or
their wants; that he was most industrious in searching after merit in
distress, most eager to relieve it, and then as careful (perhaps too
careful) to conceal what he had done; that his house, his furniture,
his gardens, his table, his private hospitality, and his public
beneficence, all denoted the mind from which they flowed, and were all
intrinsically rich and noble, without tinsel, or external ostentation;
that he filled every relation in life with the most adequate virtue;
that he was most piously religious to his Creator, most zealously
loyal to his sovereign; a most tender husband to his wife, a kind
relation, a munificent patron, a warm and firm friend, a knowing and a
chearful companion, indulgent to his servants, hospitable to his
neighbours, charitable to the poor, and benevolent to all mankind. (Length: 2275 characters)
- I
was conscious of my guilt, and ashamed to look any one in the face; so
resolved to leave Oxford the next morning, before the daylight
discovered me to the eyes of any beholders.

"When I had got clear of the city, it first entered into my head to
return home to my father, and endeavour to obtain his forgiveness; but
as I had no reason to doubt his knowledge of all which had past, and
as I was well assured of his great aversion to all acts of dishonesty,
I could entertain no hopes of being received by him, especially since
I was too certain of all the good offices in the power of my mother;
nay, had my father's pardon been as sure, as I conceived his
resentment to be, I yet question whether I could have had the
assurance to behold him, or whether I could, upon any terms, have
submitted to live and converse with those who, I was convinced, knew
me to have been guilty of so base an action.

"I hastened therefore back to London, the best retirement of either
grief or shame, unless for persons of a very public character; for
here you have the advantage of solitude without its disadvantage,
since you may be alone and in company at the same time; and while you
walk or sit unobserved, noise, hurry, and a constant succession of
objects, entertain the mind, and prevent the spirits from preying on
themselves, or rather on grief or shame, which are the most
unwholesome diet in the world; and on which (though there are many who
never taste either but in public) there are some who can feed very
plentifully and very fatally when alone.

"But as there is scarce any human good without its concomitant evil,
so there are people who find an inconvenience in this unobserving
temper of mankind; I mean persons who have no money; for as you are
not put out of countenance, so neither are you cloathed or fed by
those who do not know you. (Length: 1877 characters)
- Jones had not such implicit faith in his guide, but that on their
arrival at a village he inquired of the first fellow he saw, whether
they were in the road to Bristol. "Whence did you come?" cries the
fellow. "No matter," says Jones, a little hastily; "I want to know if
this be the road to Bristol?"--"The road to Bristol!" cries the
fellow, scratching his head: "why, measter, I believe you will hardly
get to Bristol this way to-night."--"Prithee, friend, then," answered
Jones, "do tell us which is the way."--"Why, measter," cries the
fellow, "you must be come out of your road the Lord knows whither; for
thick way goeth to Glocester."--"Well, and which way goes to Bristol?"
said Jones. "Why, you be going away from Bristol," answered the
fellow. "Then," said Jones, "we must go back again?"--"Ay, you must,"
said the fellow. "Well, and when we come back to the top of the hill,
which way must we take?"--"Why, you must keep the strait road."--"But
I remember there are two roads, one to the right and the other to the
left."--"Why, you must keep the right-hand road, and then gu strait
vorwards; only remember to turn vurst to your right, and then to your
left again, and then to your right, and that brings you to the
squire's; and then you must keep strait vorwards, and turn to the
left."

Another fellow now came up, and asked which way the gentlemen were
going; of which being informed by Jones, he first scratched his head,
and then leaning upon a pole he had in his hand, began to tell him,
"That he must keep the right-hand road for about a mile, or a mile and
a half, or such a matter, and then he must turn short to the left,
which would bring him round by Measter Jin Bearnes's."--"But which is
Mr John Bearnes's?" says Jones. "O Lord!" cries the fellow, "why,
don't you know Measter Jin Bearnes? (Length: 1844 characters)
- Pray tell me, Lady Bellaston, who is
this blazing star which you have produced among us all of a
sudden?"----"What blazing star, my lord?" said she, affecting a
surprize. "I mean," said he, "the lady I saw here the other day, whom
I had last night in my arms at the playhouse, and to whom I have been
making that unreasonable visit."----"O, my cousin Western!" said she;
"why, that blazing star, my lord, is the daughter of a country booby
squire, and hath been in town about a fortnight, for the first
time."----"Upon my soul," said he, "I should swear she had been bred
up in a court; for besides her beauty, I never saw anything so
genteel, so sensible, so polite."----"O brave!" cries the lady, "my
cousin hath you, I find."----"Upon my honour," answered he, "I wish
she had; for I am in love with her to distraction."----"Nay, my
lord," said she, "it is not wishing yourself very ill neither, for
she is a very great fortune: I assure you she is an only child, and
her father's estate is a good £3000 a-year." "Then I can assure you,
madam," answered the lord, "I think her the best match in England."
"Indeed, my lord," replied she, "if you like her, I heartily wish you
had her." "If you think so kindly of me, madam," said he, "as she is
a relation of yours, will you do me the honour to propose it to her
father?" "And are you really then in earnest?" cries the lady, with
an affected gravity. "I hope, madam," answered he, "you have a better
opinion of me, than to imagine I would jest with your ladyship in an
affair of this kind." "Indeed, then," said the lady, "I will most
readily propose your lordship to her father; and I can, I believe,
assure you of his joyful acceptance of the proposal; but there is a
bar, which I am almost ashamed to mention; and yet it is one you will
never be able to conquer. (Length: 1844 characters)
- The reader may suppose Mrs Miller received this account with great
thankfulness, and no less pleasure; but so uncommon was her friendship
to Jones, that I am not certain whether the uneasiness she suffered
for his sake did not overbalance her satisfaction at hearing a piece
of news tending so much to the happiness of her own family; nor
whether even this very news, as it reminded her of the obligations she
had to Jones, did not hurt as well as please her; when her grateful
heart said to her, "While my own family is happy, how miserable is the
poor creature to whose generosity we owe the beginning of all this
happiness!"

Allworthy, having left her a little while to chew the cud (if I may
use that expression) on these first tidings, told her he had still
something more to impart, which he believed would give her pleasure.
"I think," said he, "I have discovered a pretty considerable treasure
belonging to the young gentleman, your friend; but perhaps, indeed,
his present situation may be such that it will be of no service to
him." The latter part of the speech gave Mrs Miller to understand who
was meant, and she answered with a sigh, "I hope not, sir." "I hope so
too," cries Allworthy, "with all my heart; but my nephew told me this
morning he had heard a very bad account of the affair."----"Good
Heaven! sir," said she--"Well, I must not speak, and yet it is
certainly very hard to be obliged to hold one's tongue when one
hears."--"Madam," said Allworthy, "you may say whatever you please,
you know me too well to think I have a prejudice against any one; and
as for that young man, I assure you I should be heartily pleased to
find he could acquit himself of everything, and particularly of this
sad affair. (Length: 1754 characters)
- I will never suffer
the world to say of me that I encouraged you in refusing one of the
best matches in England; a match which, besides its advantage in
fortune, would do honour to almost any family, and hath, indeed, in
title, the advantage of ours." "Surely," says Sophia, "I am born
deficient, and have not the senses with which other people are
blessed; there must be certainly some sense which can relish the
delights of sound and show, which I have not; for surely mankind would
not labour so much, nor sacrifice so much for the obtaining, nor would
they be so elate and proud with possessing, what appeared to them, as
it doth to me, the most insignificant of all trifles."

"No, no, miss," cries the aunt; "you are born with as many senses as
other people; but I assure you you are not born with a sufficient
understanding to make a fool of me, or to expose my conduct to the
world; so I declare this to you, upon my word, and you know, I
believe, how fixed my resolutions are, unless you agree to see his
lordship this afternoon, I will, with my own hands, deliver you
to-morrow morning to my brother, and will never henceforth interfere
with you, nor see your face again." Sophia stood a few moments silent
after this speech, which was uttered in a most angry and peremptory
tone; and then, bursting into tears, she cryed, "Do with me, madam,
whatever you please; I am the most miserable undone wretch upon earth;
if my dear aunt forsakes me where shall I look for a protector?" "My
dear niece," cries she, "you will have a very good protector in his
lordship; a protector whom nothing but a hankering after that vile
fellow Jones can make you decline." "Indeed, madam," said Sophia, "you
wrong me. (Length: 1735 characters)
- One of the soldiers now went up to the serjeant, and whispered
something in his ear; upon which he stedfastly fixed his eyes on the
lady, and having looked at her for near a minute, he came up to her,
saying, "I ask pardon, madam; but I am certain I am not deceived; you
can be no other person than Captain Waters's lady?"

The poor woman, who in her present distress had very little regarded
the face of any person present, no sooner looked at the serjeant than
she presently recollected him, and calling him by his name, answered,
"That she was indeed the unhappy person he imagined her to be;" but
added, "I wonder any one should know me in this disguise." To which
the serjeant replied, "He was very much surprized to see her ladyship
in such a dress, and was afraid some accident had happened to
her."--"An accident hath happened to me, indeed," says she, "and I am
highly obliged to this gentleman" (pointing to Jones) "that it was not
a fatal one, or that I am now living to mention it."--"Whatever the
gentleman hath done," cries the serjeant, "I am sure the captain will
make him amends for it; and if I can be of any service, your ladyship
may command me, and I shall think myself very happy to have it in my
power to serve your ladyship; and so indeed may any one, for I know
the captain will well reward them for it."

The landlady, who heard from the stairs all that past between the
serjeant and Mrs Waters, came hastily down, and running directly up to
her, began to ask pardon for the offences she had committed, begging
that all might be imputed to ignorance of her quality: for, "Lud!
madam," says she, "how should I have imagined that a lady of your
fashion would appear in such a dress? (Length: 1733 characters)
- Nay, notwithstanding his
returning your note, and refusing the reward, I almost question
whether he is a gentleman.----I have always observed there is a
something in persons well born, which others can never acquire.----I
think I will give orders not to be at home to him."

"Nay, sure, madam," answered Sophia, "one can't suspect after what he
hath done;--besides, if your ladyship observed him, there was an
elegance in his discourse, a delicacy, a prettiness of expression
that, that----"

"I confess," said Lady Bellaston, "the fellow hath words----And
indeed, Sophia, you must forgive me, indeed you must."

"I forgive your ladyship!" said Sophia.

"Yes, indeed you must," answered she, laughing; "for I had a horrible
suspicion when I first came into the room----I vow you must forgive
it; but I suspected it was Mr Jones himself."

"Did your ladyship, indeed?" cries Sophia, blushing, and affecting a
laugh.

"Yes, I vow I did," answered she. "I can't imagine what put it into my
head: for, give the fellow his due, he was genteely drest; which, I
think, dear Sophy, is not commonly the case with your friend."

"This raillery," cries Sophia, "is a little cruel, Lady Bellaston,
after my promise to your ladyship."

"Not at all, child," said the lady;----"It would have been cruel
before; but after you have promised me never to marry without your
father's consent, in which you know is implied your giving up Jones,
sure you can bear a little raillery on a passion which was pardonable
enough in a young girl in the country, and of which you tell me you
have so entirely got the better. (Length: 1629 characters)
