Title: Jane Eyre: An Autobiography


Top 10 Shortest Sentences:
- Forgive me! (Words: 2)
- Are you hurt? (Words: 3)
- Conventionality is not morality. (Words: 4)
- How is he my master? (Words: 5)
- Rat!” and bellowed out aloud. (Words: 6)
- My thanks are due in three quarters. (Words: 7)
- Eliza, who was headstrong and selfish, was respected. (Words: 8)
- In the interview which followed between him and Mrs. (Words: 9)
- What a consternation of soul was mine that dreary afternoon! (Words: 10)
- At last both slept: the fire and the candle went out. (Words: 11)

Top 10 Longest Words:
- characteristically (Length: 18 characters)
- conscientiousness (Length: 17 characters)
- misunderstandings (Length: 17 characters)
- conventionalities (Length: 17 characters)
- disadvantageously (Length: 17 characters)
- inconsiderateness (Length: 17 characters)
- personifications (Length: 16 characters)
- disproportionate (Length: 16 characters)
- indiscriminately (Length: 16 characters)
- superciliousness (Length: 16 characters)

Top 10 Most Common Letters:
- e (Occurrences: 102361)
- t (Occurrences: 68624)
- a (Occurrences: 63873)
- o (Occurrences: 61946)
- i (Occurrences: 57162)
- n (Occurrences: 55321)
- s (Occurrences: 50872)
- r (Occurrences: 48604)
- h (Occurrences: 46435)
- d (Occurrences: 37986)

Top 10 Most Common Words:
- the (Occurrences: 8043)
- i (Occurrences: 7255)
- and (Occurrences: 6698)
- to (Occurrences: 5318)
- a (Occurrences: 4535)
- of (Occurrences: 4489)
- you (Occurrences: 3053)
- in (Occurrences: 2828)
- was (Occurrences: 2526)
- it (Occurrences: 2430)
Top 10 Longest Sentences:
- You seem to
doubt me; I don’t doubt myself: I know what my aim is, what my motives
are; and at this moment I pass a law, unalterable as that of the Medes
and Persians, that both are right.”

“They cannot be, sir, if they require a new statute to legalise them.”

“They are, Miss Eyre, though they absolutely require a new statute:
unheard-of combinations of circumstances demand unheard-of rules.”

“That sounds a dangerous maxim, sir; because one can see at once that
it is liable to abuse.”

“Sententious sage! so it is: but I swear by my household gods not to
abuse it.”

“You are human and fallible.”

“I am: so are you—what then?”

“The human and fallible should not arrogate a power with which the
divine and perfect alone can be safely intrusted.”

“What power?”

“That of saying of any strange, unsanctioned line of action,—‘Let it be
right.’”

“‘Let it be right’—the very words: you have pronounced them.”

“_May_ it be right then,” I said, as I rose, deeming it useless to
continue a discourse which was all darkness to me; and, besides,
sensible that the character of my interlocutor was beyond my
penetration; at least, beyond its present reach; and feeling the
uncertainty, the vague sense of insecurity, which accompanies a
conviction of ignorance.

“Where are you going?”

“To put Adèle to bed: it is past her bedtime.”

“You are afraid of me, because I talk like a Sphynx.”

“Your language is enigmatical, sir: but though I am bewildered, I am
certainly not afraid.”

“You _are_ afraid—your self-love dreads a blunder.”

“In that sense I do feel apprehensive—I have no wish to talk nonsense.”

“If you did, it would be in such a grave, quiet manner, I should
mistake it for sense. (Length: 1747 characters)
- I followed with lagging step, and thoughts
busily bent on discovering a means of extrication; but he himself
looked so composed and so grave also, I became ashamed of feeling any
confusion: the evil—if evil existent or prospective there was—seemed to
lie with me only; his mind was unconscious and quiet.

“Jane,” he recommenced, as we entered the laurel walk, and slowly
strayed down in the direction of the sunk fence and the horse-chestnut,
“Thornfield is a pleasant place in summer, is it not?”

“Yes, sir.”

“You must have become in some degree attached to the house,—you, who
have an eye for natural beauties, and a good deal of the organ of
Adhesiveness?”

“I am attached to it, indeed.”

“And though I don’t comprehend how it is, I perceive you have acquired
a degree of regard for that foolish little child Adèle, too; and even
for simple dame Fairfax?”

“Yes, sir; in different ways, I have an affection for both.”

“And would be sorry to part with them?”

“Yes.”

“Pity!” he said, and sighed and paused. “It is always the way of events
in this life,” he continued presently: “no sooner have you got settled
in a pleasant resting-place, than a voice calls out to you to rise and
move on, for the hour of repose is expired.”

“Must I move on, sir?” I asked. “Must I leave Thornfield?”

“I believe you must, Jane. (Length: 1356 characters)
- Brocklehurst buys all our food and
all our clothes.”

“Does he live here?”

“No—two miles off, at a large hall.”

“Is he a good man?”

“He is a clergyman, and is said to do a great deal of good.”

“Did you say that tall lady was called Miss Temple?”

“Yes.”

“And what are the other teachers called?”

“The one with red cheeks is called Miss Smith; she attends to the work,
and cuts out—for we make our own clothes, our frocks, and pelisses, and
everything; the little one with black hair is Miss Scatcherd; she
teaches history and grammar, and hears the second class repetitions;
and the one who wears a shawl, and has a pocket-handkerchief tied to
her side with a yellow ribband, is Madame Pierrot: she comes from
Lisle, in France, and teaches French.”

“Do you like the teachers?”

“Well enough.”

“Do you like the little black one, and the Madame ——?—I cannot
pronounce her name as you do.”

“Miss Scatcherd is hasty—you must take care not to offend her; Madame
Pierrot is not a bad sort of person.”

“But Miss Temple is the best—isn’t she?”

“Miss Temple is very good and very clever; she is above the rest,
because she knows far more than they do.”

“Have you been long here?”

“Two years.”

“Are you an orphan?”

“My mother is dead.”

“Are you happy here?”

“You ask rather too many questions. (Length: 1350 characters)
- My father and my brother
Rowland knew all this; but they thought only of the thirty thousand
pounds, and joined in the plot against me.

“These were vile discoveries; but except for the treachery of
concealment, I should have made them no subject of reproach to my wife,
even when I found her nature wholly alien to mine, her tastes obnoxious
to me, her cast of mind common, low, narrow, and singularly incapable
of being led to anything higher, expanded to anything larger—when I
found that I could not pass a single evening, nor even a single hour of
the day with her in comfort; that kindly conversation could not be
sustained between us, because whatever topic I started, immediately
received from her a turn at once coarse and trite, perverse and
imbecile—when I perceived that I should never have a quiet or settled
household, because no servant would bear the continued outbreaks of her
violent and unreasonable temper, or the vexations of her absurd,
contradictory, exacting orders—even then I restrained myself: I
eschewed upbraiding, I curtailed remonstrance; I tried to devour my
repentance and disgust in secret; I repressed the deep antipathy I
felt.

“Jane, I will not trouble you with abominable details: some strong
words shall express what I have to say. (Length: 1293 characters)
- If even this stranger had smiled and been good-humoured to me when I
addressed him; if he had put off my offer of assistance gaily and with
thanks, I should have gone on my way and not felt any vocation to renew
inquiries: but the frown, the roughness of the traveller, set me at my
ease: I retained my station when he waved to me to go, and announced—

“I cannot think of leaving you, sir, at so late an hour, in this
solitary lane, till I see you are fit to mount your horse.”

He looked at me when I said this; he had hardly turned his eyes in my
direction before.

“I should think you ought to be at home yourself,” said he, “if you
have a home in this neighbourhood: where do you come from?”

“From just below; and I am not at all afraid of being out late when it
is moonlight: I will run over to Hay for you with pleasure, if you wish
it: indeed, I am going there to post a letter.”

“You live just below—do you mean at that house with the battlements?”
pointing to Thornfield Hall, on which the moon cast a hoary gleam,
bringing it out distinct and pale from the woods that, by contrast with
the western sky, now seemed one mass of shadow.

“Yes, sir.”

“Whose house is it?”

“Mr. (Length: 1215 characters)
- The cloven halves were not broken from each
other, for the firm base and strong roots kept them unsundered below;
though community of vitality was destroyed—the sap could flow no more:
their great boughs on each side were dead, and next winter’s tempests
would be sure to fell one or both to earth: as yet, however, they might
be said to form one tree—a ruin, but an entire ruin.

“You did right to hold fast to each other,” I said: as if the
monster-splinters were living things, and could hear me. “I think,
scathed as you look, and charred and scorched, there must be a little
sense of life in you yet, rising out of that adhesion at the faithful,
honest roots: you will never have green leaves more—never more see
birds making nests and singing idyls in your boughs; the time of
pleasure and love is over with you: but you are not desolate: each of
you has a comrade to sympathise with him in his decay.” As I looked up
at them, the moon appeared momentarily in that part of the sky which
filled their fissure; her disk was blood-red and half overcast; she
seemed to throw on me one bewildered, dreary glance, and buried herself
again instantly in the deep drift of cloud. (Length: 1194 characters)
- Death was not for such as I.”

“Indeed it was: I had as good a right to die when my time came as he
had: but I should bide that time, and not be hurried away in a suttee.”

“Would I forgive him for the selfish idea, and prove my pardon by a
reconciling kiss?”

“No: I would rather be excused.”

Here I heard myself apostrophised as a “hard little thing;” and it was
added, “any other woman would have been melted to marrow at hearing
such stanzas crooned in her praise.”

I assured him I was naturally hard—very flinty, and that he would often
find me so; and that, moreover, I was determined to show him divers
rugged points in my character before the ensuing four weeks elapsed: he
should know fully what sort of a bargain he had made, while there was
yet time to rescind it.

“Would I be quiet and talk rationally?”

“I would be quiet if he liked, and as to talking rationally, I
flattered myself I was doing that now.”

He fretted, pished, and pshawed. “Very good,” I thought; “you may fume
and fidget as you please: but this is the best plan to pursue with you,
I am certain. (Length: 1107 characters)
- John’s conduct does not please her—he
spends a deal of money.”

“Did she send you here, Bessie?”

“No, indeed: but I have long wanted to see you, and when I heard that
there had been a letter from you, and that you were going to another
part of the country, I thought I’d just set off, and get a look at you
before you were quite out of my reach.”

“I am afraid you are disappointed in me, Bessie.” I said this laughing:
I perceived that Bessie’s glance, though it expressed regard, did in no
shape denote admiration.

“No, Miss Jane, not exactly: you are genteel enough; you look like a
lady, and it is as much as ever I expected of you: you were no beauty
as a child.”

I smiled at Bessie’s frank answer: I felt that it was correct, but I
confess I was not quite indifferent to its import: at eighteen most
people wish to please, and the conviction that they have not an
exterior likely to second that desire brings anything but
gratification.

“I dare say you are clever, though,” continued Bessie, by way of
solace. “What can you do? (Length: 1062 characters)
- If I
were mademoiselle, I would never consent to go with you.”

“She has consented: she has pledged her word.”

“But you can’t get her there; there is no road to the moon: it is all
air; and neither you nor she can fly.”

“Adèle, look at that field.” We were now outside Thornfield gates, and
bowling lightly along the smooth road to Millcote, where the dust was
well laid by the thunderstorm, and, where the low hedges and lofty
timber trees on each side glistened green and rain-refreshed.

“In that field, Adèle, I was walking late one evening about a fortnight
since—the evening of the day you helped me to make hay in the orchard
meadows; and, as I was tired with raking swaths, I sat down to rest me
on a stile; and there I took out a little book and a pencil, and began
to write about a misfortune that befell me long ago, and a wish I had
for happy days to come: I was writing away very fast, though daylight
was fading from the leaf, when something came up the path and stopped
two yards off me. (Length: 1024 characters)
- They were those which treat of the haunts of
sea-fowl; of “the solitary rocks and promontories” by them only
inhabited; of the coast of Norway, studded with isles from its southern
extremity, the Lindeness, or Naze, to the North Cape—

“Where the Northern Ocean, in vast whirls,
Boils round the naked, melancholy isles
Of farthest Thule; and the Atlantic surge
Pours in among the stormy Hebrides.”


Nor could I pass unnoticed the suggestion of the bleak shores of
Lapland, Siberia, Spitzbergen, Nova Zembla, Iceland, Greenland, with
“the vast sweep of the Arctic Zone, and those forlorn regions of dreary
space,—that reservoir of frost and snow, where firm fields of ice, the
accumulation of centuries of winters, glazed in Alpine heights above
heights, surround the pole, and concentre the multiplied rigours of
extreme cold.” Of these death-white realms I formed an idea of my own:
shadowy, like all the half-comprehended notions that float dim through
children’s brains, but strangely impressive. (Length: 1019 characters)
