Title: Little Women; Or, Meg, Jo, Beth, and Amy


Top 10 Shortest Sentences:
- THE P. (Words: 2)
- March said, &c. (Words: 3)
- Open the door, Amy! (Words: 4)
- Bless me, what's all this? (Words: 5)
- Laurence sent it," replied Mrs. (Words: 6)
- What will we get?" exclaimed Jo. (Words: 7)
- Don Pedro refuses, because he is not rich. (Words: 8)
- You are a dear, to lend me yours, Jo. (Words: 9)
- Zara replied, and, after a musical dialogue, consented to fly. (Words: 10)
- But I want to say one word before we sit down. (Words: 11)

Top 10 Longest Words:
- philoprogenitiveness (Length: 20 characters)
- characteristically (Length: 18 characters)
- conventionalities (Length: 17 characters)
- misunderstandings (Length: 17 characters)
- _deggerredation_ (Length: 16 characters)
- enthusiastically (Length: 16 characters)
- uncharitableness (Length: 16 characters)
- unenforceability (Length: 16 characters)
- accomplishments (Length: 15 characters)
- dissatisfaction (Length: 15 characters)

Top 10 Most Common Letters:
- e (Occurrences: 101156)
- t (Occurrences: 71019)
- a (Occurrences: 66203)
- o (Occurrences: 63191)
- n (Occurrences: 54338)
- i (Occurrences: 54113)
- h (Occurrences: 50356)
- s (Occurrences: 49897)
- r (Occurrences: 48065)
- d (Occurrences: 39028)

Top 10 Most Common Words:
- and (Occurrences: 8314)
- the (Occurrences: 8145)
- to (Occurrences: 5356)
- a (Occurrences: 4682)
- i (Occurrences: 4024)
- of (Occurrences: 3706)
- her (Occurrences: 3333)
- it (Occurrences: 2825)
- in (Occurrences: 2631)
- you (Occurrences: 2485)
Top 10 Longest Sentences:
- It so
happened that she could not have done a better thing, for Laurie came in
so quietly she did not hear him; and, as she stood at the distant
window, with her head half turned, and one hand gathering up her dress,
the slender, white figure against the red curtains was as effective as a
well-placed statue.

"Good evening, Diana!" said Laurie, with the look of satisfaction she
liked to see in his eyes when they rested on her.

"Good evening, Apollo!" she answered, smiling back at him, for he, too,
looked unusually _debonnaire_, and the thought of entering the ball-room
on the arm of such a personable man caused Amy to pity the four plain
Misses Davis from the bottom of her heart.

"Here are your flowers; I arranged them myself, remembering that you
didn't like what Hannah calls a 'sot-bookay,'" said Laurie, handing her
a delicate nosegay, in a holder that she had long coveted as she daily
passed it in Cardiglia's window.

                  [Illustration: Here are your flowers]

"How kind you are!" she exclaimed gratefully. "If I'd known you were
coming I'd have had something ready for you to-day, though not as pretty
as this, I'm afraid."

"Thank you; it isn't what it should be, but you have improved it," he
added, as she snapped the silver bracelet on her wrist.

"Please don't."

"I thought you liked that sort of thing?"

"Not from you; it doesn't sound natural, and I like your old bluntness
better."

"I'm glad of it," he answered, with a look of relief; then buttoned her
gloves for her, and asked if his tie was straight, just as he used to do
when they went to parties together, at home. (Length: 1654 characters)
- John Brooke

    Home of the Little Women

    The Dove Cote

    A small watchman's rattle

    Tail-piece

    The First Wedding

    Artistic Attempts

    Her foot held fast in a panful of plaster

    Please don't, it's mine

    Tail-piece

    Literary Lessons

    A check for one hundred dollars

    Tail-piece

    Domestic Experiences

    Both felt desperately uncomfortable

    A bargain, I assure you, ma'am

    Laurie heroically shut his eyes while something was put
    into his arms

    Calls

    She took the saddle to the horse

    It might have been worse

    The call at Aunt March's

    Tail-piece

    You shall have another table

    Bought up the bouquets

    Tail-piece

    Flo and I ordered a hansom-cab

    Every one was very kind, especially the officers

    I've seen the imperial family several times

    Trying to sketch the gray-stone lion's head on the wall

    She leaned her head upon her hands

    Now, this is filling at the price

    Up with the Bonnets of Bonnie Dundee

    I amused myself by dropping gingerbread nuts over
    the seat

    Thou shalt haf thy Bhaer

    He waved his hand, sock and all

    Dis is mine effalunt

    I sat down upon the floor and read and looked and ate

    Tail-piece

    In the presence of three gentlemen

    A select symposium

    He doesn't prink at his glass before coming

    Jo stuffed the whole bundle into the stove

    He put the sisters into the carriage

    He laid his head down on the mossy post

    O Jo, can't you? (Length: 1622 characters)
- May nothing you dismay,
         But health and peace and happiness
          Be yours, this Christmas Day.

        "Here's fruit to feed our busy bee,
          And flowers for her nose;
         Here's music for her pianee,
          An Afghan for her toes.

        "A portrait of Joanna, see,
          By Raphael No. 2,
         Who labored with great industry
          To make it fair and true.

        "Accept a ribbon red, I beg,
          For Madam Purrer's tail;
         And ice-cream made by lovely Peg,--
          A Mont Blanc in a pail.

        "Their dearest love my makers laid
          Within my breast of snow:
         Accept it, and the Alpine maid,
          From Laurie and from Jo."

                      [Illustration: The Jungfrau]

How Beth laughed when she saw it, how Laurie ran up and down to bring in
the gifts, and what ridiculous speeches Jo made as she presented them!

"I'm so full of happiness, that, if father was only here, I couldn't
hold one drop more," said Beth, quite sighing with contentment as Jo
carried her off to the study to rest after the excitement, and to
refresh herself with some of the delicious grapes the "Jungfrau" had
sent her.

"So am I," added Jo, slapping the pocket wherein reposed the
long-desired Undine and Sintram.

"I'm sure I am," echoed Amy, poring over the engraved copy of the
Madonna and Child, which her mother had given her, in a pretty frame.

"Of course I am!" cried Meg, smoothing the silvery folds of her first
silk dress; for Mr. (Length: 1557 characters)
- Give him the lovingest hug that ever was, and kiss yourself
    a dozen times for your
                                                   "TOPSY-TURVY JO."

                         "A SONG FROM THE SUDS.

        "Queen of my tub, I merrily sing,
           While the white foam rises high;
         And sturdily wash and rinse and wring,
           And fasten the clothes to dry;
         Then out in the free fresh air they swing,
           Under the sunny sky.

        "I wish we could wash from our hearts and souls
           The stains of the week away,
         And let water and air by their magic make
           Ourselves as pure as they;
         Then on the earth there would be indeed
           A glorious washing-day!

        "Along the path of a useful life,
           Will heart's-ease ever bloom;
         The busy mind has no time to think
           Of sorrow or care or gloom;
         And anxious thoughts may be swept away,
           As we bravely wield a broom.

        "I am glad a task to me is given,
           To labor at day by day;
         For it brings me health and strength and hope,
           And I cheerfully learn to say,--
         'Head, you may think, Heart, you may feel,
           But, Hand, you shall work alway!'"

    "DEAR MOTHER,--

    "There is only room for me to send my love, and some pressed
    pansies from the root I have been keeping safe in the house for
    father to see. (Length: 1479 characters)
- Meg made many moral rules, and tried to keep them; but what mother was
ever proof against the winning wiles, the ingenious evasions, or the
tranquil audacity of the miniature men and women who so early show
themselves accomplished Artful Dodgers?

"No more raisins, Demi, they'll make you sick," says mamma to the young
person who offers his services in the kitchen with unfailing regularity
on plum-pudding day.

"Me likes to be sick."

"I don't want to have you, so run away and help Daisy make patty-cakes."

He reluctantly departs, but his wrongs weigh upon his spirit; and, by
and by, when an opportunity comes to redress them, he outwits mamma by a
shrewd bargain.

"Now you have been good children, and I'll play anything you like," says
Meg, as she leads her assistant cooks upstairs, when the pudding is
safely bouncing in the pot.

"Truly, marmar?" asks Demi, with a brilliant idea in his well-powdered
head.

"Yes, truly; anything you say," replies the short-sighted parent,
preparing herself to sing "The Three Little Kittens" half a dozen times
over, or to take her family to "Buy a penny bun," regardless of wind or
limb. (Length: 1162 characters)
- We'll stop at Meg's, and borrow her white sunshade, and then you can
have my dove-colored one."

While Amy dressed, she issued her orders, and Jo obeyed them; not
without entering her protest, however, for she sighed as she rustled
into her new organdie, frowned darkly at herself as she tied her bonnet
strings in an irreproachable bow, wrestled viciously with pins as she
put on her collar, wrinkled up her features generally as she shook out
the handkerchief, whose embroidery was as irritating to her nose as the
present mission was to her feelings; and when she had squeezed her hands
into tight gloves with three buttons and a tassel, as the last touch of
elegance, she turned to Amy with an imbecile expression of countenance,
saying meekly,--

"I'm perfectly miserable; but if you consider me presentable, I die
happy."

"You are highly satisfactory; turn slowly round, and let me get a
careful view." Jo revolved, and Amy gave a touch here and there, then
fell back, with her head on one side, observing graciously, "Yes, you'll
do; your head is all I could ask, for that white bonnet _with_ the rose
is quite ravishing. (Length: 1150 characters)
- They reached a curtained
door, behind which sounded lovely music; he sprang forward to enter, but
the spectre plucked him back, and waved threateningly before him a--"

"Snuff-box," said Jo, in a sepulchral tone, which convulsed the
audience. "'Thankee,' said the knight politely, as he took a pinch, and
sneezed seven times so violently that his head fell off. 'Ha! ha!'
laughed the ghost; and having peeped through the key-hole at the
princesses spinning away for dear life, the evil spirit picked up her
victim and put him in a large tin box, where there were eleven other
knights packed together without their heads, like sardines, who all rose
and began to--"

                       [Illustration: He sneezed]

"Dance a hornpipe," cut in Fred, as Jo paused for breath; "and, as they
danced, the rubbishy old castle turned to a man-of-war in full sail. 'Up
with the jib, reef the tops'l halliards, helm hard a lee, and man the
guns!' roared the captain, as a Portuguese pirate hove in sight, with a
flag black as ink flying from her foremast. 'Go in and win, my
hearties!' says the captain; and a tremendous fight begun. (Length: 1145 characters)
- I don't
know whether the shearing sobered our black sheep, but I do know that in
all Washington I couldn't find anything beautiful enough to be bought
with the five-and-twenty dollars which my good girl sent me."

Jo's keen eyes were rather dim for a minute, and her thin face grew rosy
in the firelight, as she received her father's praise, feeling that she
did deserve a portion of it.

"Now Beth," said Amy, longing for her turn, but ready to wait.

"There's so little of her, I'm afraid to say much, for fear she will
slip away altogether, though she is not so shy as she used to be," began
their father cheerfully; but recollecting how nearly he _had_ lost her,
he held her close, saying tenderly, with her cheek against his own,
"I've got you safe, my Beth, and I'll keep you so, please God."

After a minute's silence, he looked down at Amy, who sat on the cricket
at his feet, and said, with a caress of the shining hair,--

"I observed that Amy took drumsticks at dinner, ran errands for her
mother all the afternoon, gave Meg her place to-night, and has waited
on every one with patience and good-humor. (Length: 1135 characters)
- There is not much danger that real talent or goodness
will be overlooked long; even if it is, the consciousness of possessing
and using it well should satisfy one, and the great charm of all power
is modesty."

"So it is!" cried Laurie, who was playing chess in a corner with Jo. "I
knew a girl, once, who had a really remarkable talent for music, and she
didn't know it; never guessed what sweet little things she composed when
she was alone, and wouldn't have believed it if any one had told her."

"I wish I'd known that nice girl; maybe she would have helped me, I'm so
stupid," said Beth, who stood beside him, listening eagerly.

"You do know her, and she helps you better than any one else could,"
answered Laurie, looking at her with such mischievous meaning in his
merry black eyes, that Beth suddenly turned very red, and hid her face
in the sofa-cushion, quite overcome by such an unexpected discovery.

                    [Illustration: You do know her]

Jo let Laurie win the game, to pay for that praise of her Beth, who
could not be prevailed upon to play for them after her compliment. (Length: 1123 characters)
- I know just what I should say,
for I've planned it all, so I needn't be taken unawares; there's no
knowing what may happen, and I wished to be prepared."

Jo couldn't help smiling at the important air which Meg had
unconsciously assumed, and which was as becoming as the pretty color
varying in her cheeks.

"Would you mind telling me what you'd say?" asked Jo more respectfully.

"Not at all; you are sixteen now, quite old enough to be my confidant,
and my experience will be useful to you by and by, perhaps, in your own
affairs of this sort."

"Don't mean to have any; it's fun to watch other people philander, but I
should feel like a fool doing it myself," said Jo, looking alarmed at
the thought.

"I think not, if you liked any one very much, and he liked you." Meg
spoke as if to herself, and glanced out at the lane, where she had often
seen lovers walking together in the summer twilight.

"I thought you were going to tell your speech to that man," said Jo,
rudely shortening her sister's little reverie.

"Oh, I should merely say, quite calmly and decidedly, 'Thank you, Mr. (Length: 1112 characters)
