Title: Middlemarch


Top 10 Shortest Sentences:
- BOOK I. (Words: 2)
- OLD AND YOUNG. (Words: 3)
- Celia understood the action. (Words: 4)
- THE WIDOW AND THE WIFE. (Words: 5)
- That child-pilgrimage was a fit beginning. (Words: 6)
- These peculiarities of Dorothea’s character caused Mr. (Words: 7)
- I pulled up; I pulled up in time. (Words: 8)
- But Davy was there: he was a poet too. (Words: 9)
- I will keep these—this ring and bracelet,” said Dorothea. (Words: 10)
- He is one of the most distinguished-looking men I ever saw. (Words: 11)

Top 10 Longest Words:
- disproportionately (Length: 18 characters)
- contemporaneously (Length: 17 characters)
- comprehensiveness (Length: 17 characters)
- disadvantageously (Length: 17 characters)
- miscellaneousness (Length: 17 characters)
- dispassionateness (Length: 17 characters)
- misinterpretation (Length: 17 characters)
- contradictoriness (Length: 17 characters)
- inconsiderateness (Length: 17 characters)
- misrepresentation (Length: 17 characters)

Top 10 Most Common Letters:
- e (Occurrences: 168880)
- t (Occurrences: 125021)
- a (Occurrences: 115225)
- o (Occurrences: 109944)
- i (Occurrences: 100874)
- n (Occurrences: 97927)
- h (Occurrences: 90257)
- s (Occurrences: 89315)
- r (Occurrences: 81071)
- d (Occurrences: 61590)

Top 10 Most Common Words:
- the (Occurrences: 12777)
- to (Occurrences: 10271)
- of (Occurrences: 9009)
- and (Occurrences: 8683)
- a (Occurrences: 7410)
- in (Occurrences: 5359)
- that (Occurrences: 5197)
- he (Occurrences: 5000)
- i (Occurrences: 4736)
- was (Occurrences: 4638)
Top 10 Longest Sentences:
- You are
lonely; I love you; I want you to consent to be my wife; I will wait,
but I want you to promise that you will marry me—no one else.”

Laure looked at him in silence with a melancholy radiance from under
her grand eyelids, until he was full of rapturous certainty, and knelt
close to her knees.

“I will tell you something,” she said, in her cooing way, keeping her
arms folded. “My foot really slipped.”

“I know, I know,” said Lydgate, deprecatingly. “It was a fatal
accident—a dreadful stroke of calamity that bound me to you the more.”

Again Laure paused a little and then said, slowly, “_I meant to do
it._”

Lydgate, strong man as he was, turned pale and trembled: moments seemed
to pass before he rose and stood at a distance from her.

“There was a secret, then,” he said at last, even vehemently. “He was
brutal to you: you hated him.”

“No! he wearied me; he was too fond: he would live in Paris, and not in
my country; that was not agreeable to me.”

“Great God!” said Lydgate, in a groan of horror. “And you planned to
murder him?”

“I did not plan: it came to me in the play—_I meant to do it._”

Lydgate stood mute, and unconsciously pressed his hat on while he
looked at her. (Length: 1230 characters)
- At last he turned, still resting against the chair, and
stretching his hand automatically towards his hat, said with a sort of
exasperation, “Good-by.”

“Oh, I cannot bear it—my heart will break,” said Dorothea, starting
from her seat, the flood of her young passion bearing down all the
obstructions which had kept her silent—the great tears rising and
falling in an instant: “I don’t mind about poverty—I hate my wealth.”

In an instant Will was close to her and had his arms round her, but she
drew her head back and held his away gently that she might go on
speaking, her large tear-filled eyes looking at his very simply, while
she said in a sobbing childlike way, “We could live quite well on my
own fortune—it is too much—seven hundred a-year—I want so little—no new
clothes—and I will learn what everything costs.”




CHAPTER LXXXIV.

“Though it be songe of old and yonge,
    That I sholde be to blame,
Theyrs be the charge, that spoke so large
    In hurtynge of my name.”
—_The Not-Browne Mayde_. (Length: 1033 characters)
- He had not
been accustomed to very cordial relations with his neighbors, and hence
he could not miss the signs of cordiality; moreover, he had been taking
journeys on business of various kinds, having now made up his mind that
he need not quit Middlemarch, and feeling able consequently to
determine on matters which he had before left in suspense.

“We will make a journey to Cheltenham in the course of a month or two,”
he had said to his wife. “There are great spiritual advantages to be
had in that town along with the air and the waters, and six weeks there
will be eminently refreshing to us.”

He really believed in the spiritual advantages, and meant that his life
henceforth should be the more devoted because of those later sins which
he represented to himself as hypothetic, praying hypothetically for
their pardon:—“if I have herein transgressed.”

As to the Hospital, he avoided saying anything further to Lydgate,
fearing to manifest a too sudden change of plans immediately on the
death of Raffles. (Length: 1032 characters)
- She knew that he had
avowed his love for her. “I felt that”—he broke off, nevertheless.

“You acted as I should have expected you to act,” said Dorothea, her
face brightening and her head becoming a little more erect on its
beautiful stem.

“I did not believe that you would let any circumstance of my birth
create a prejudice in you against me, though it was sure to do so in
others,” said Will, shaking his head backward in his old way, and
looking with a grave appeal into her eyes.

“If it were a new hardship it would be a new reason for me to cling to
you,” said Dorothea, fervidly. “Nothing could have changed me but—” her
heart was swelling, and it was difficult to go on; she made a great
effort over herself to say in a low tremulous voice, “but thinking that
you were different—not so good as I had believed you to be.”

“You are sure to believe me better than I am in everything but one,”
said Will, giving way to his own feeling in the evidence of hers. “I
mean, in my truth to you. (Length: 1015 characters)
- He slept as usual for a few
hours, but she had risen softly and had sat in the darkness for nearly
an hour before he said—

“Dorothea, since you are up, will you light a candle?”

“Do you feel ill, dear?” was her first question, as she obeyed him.

“No, not at all; but I shall be obliged, since you are up, if you will
read me a few pages of Lowth.”

“May I talk to you a little instead?” said Dorothea.

“Certainly.”

“I have been thinking about money all day—that I have always had too
much, and especially the prospect of too much.”

“These, my dear Dorothea, are providential arrangements.”

“But if one has too much in consequence of others being wronged, it
seems to me that the divine voice which tells us to set that wrong
right must be obeyed.”

“What, my love, is the bearing of your remark?”

“That you have been too liberal in arrangements for me—I mean, with
regard to property; and that makes me unhappy.”

“How so? (Length: 959 characters)
- Here is a sharp stroke or
two. _If we had to describe a man who is retrogressive in the most evil
sense of the word—we should say, he is one who would dub himself a
reformer of our constitution, while every interest for which he is
immediately responsible is going to decay: a philanthropist who cannot
bear one rogue to be hanged, but does not mind five honest tenants
being half-starved: a man who shrieks at corruption, and keeps his
farms at rack-rent: who roars himself red at rotten boroughs, and does
not mind if every field on his farms has a rotten gate: a man very
open-hearted to Leeds and Manchester, no doubt; he would give any
number of representatives who will pay for their seats out of their own
pockets: what he objects to giving, is a little return on rent-days to
help a tenant to buy stock, or an outlay on repairs to keep the weather
out at a tenant’s barn-door or make his house look a little less like
an Irish cottier’s. (Length: 959 characters)
- For he was not at all a jealous
husband, and preferred leaving a feather-headed young gentleman alone
with his wife to bearing him company.

“I wish you would talk more to the Captain at dinner, Tertius,” said
Rosamond, one evening when the important guest was gone to Loamford to
see some brother officers stationed there. “You really look so absent
sometimes—you seem to be seeing through his head into something behind
it, instead of looking at him.”

“My dear Rosy, you don’t expect me to talk much to such a conceited ass
as that, I hope,” said Lydgate, brusquely. “If he got his head broken,
I might look at it with interest, not before.”

“I cannot conceive why you should speak of your cousin so
contemptuously,” said Rosamond, her fingers moving at her work while
she spoke with a mild gravity which had a touch of disdain in it.

“Ask Ladislaw if he doesn’t think your Captain the greatest bore he
ever met with. (Length: 941 characters)
- CHAPTER XV.

“Black eyes you have left, you say,
    Blue eyes fail to draw you;
Yet you seem more rapt to-day,
    Than of old we saw you.

“Oh, I track the fairest fair
    Through new haunts of pleasure;
Footprints here and echoes there
    Guide me to my treasure:

“Lo! she turns—immortal youth
    Wrought to mortal stature,
Fresh as starlight’s aged truth—
    Many-namèd Nature!”


A great historian, as he insisted on calling himself, who had the
happiness to be dead a hundred and twenty years ago, and so to take his
place among the colossi whose huge legs our living pettiness is
observed to walk under, glories in his copious remarks and digressions
as the least imitable part of his work, and especially in those initial
chapters to the successive books of his history, where he seems to
bring his armchair to the proscenium and chat with us in all the lusty
ease of his fine English. (Length: 923 characters)
- After that, I
could talk it well over with him, and we could go into business and the
nature of things.”

“Oh, you dear good father!” cried Mary, putting her hands round her
father’s neck, while he bent his head placidly, willing to be caressed.
“I wonder if any other girl thinks her father the best man in the
world!”

“Nonsense, child; you’ll think your husband better.”

“Impossible,” said Mary, relapsing into her usual tone; “husbands are
an inferior class of men, who require keeping in order.”

When they were entering the house with Letty, who had run to join them,
Mary saw Fred at the orchard-gate, and went to meet him.

“What fine clothes you wear, you extravagant youth!” said Mary, as Fred
stood still and raised his hat to her with playful formality. “You are
not learning economy.”

“Now that is too bad, Mary,” said Fred. “Just look at the edges of
these coat-cuffs! (Length: 906 characters)
- With the year’s bills coming
in from his tradesmen, with Dover’s threatening hold on his furniture,
and with nothing to depend on but slow dribbling payments from patients
who must not be offended—for the handsome fees he had had from Freshitt
Hall and Lowick Manor had been easily absorbed—nothing less than a
thousand pounds would have freed him from actual embarrassment, and
left a residue which, according to the favorite phrase of hopefulness
in such circumstances, would have given him “time to look about him.”

Naturally, the merry Christmas bringing the happy New Year, when
fellow-citizens expect to be paid for the trouble and goods they have
smilingly bestowed on their neighbors, had so tightened the pressure of
sordid cares on Lydgate’s mind that it was hardly possible for him to
think unbrokenly of any other subject, even the most habitual and
soliciting. (Length: 888 characters)
