Title: Moby Dick; Or, The Whale


Top 10 Shortest Sentences:
- CHAPTER 1. (Words: 2)
- A Bosom Friend. (Words: 3)
- Ahab’s Boat and Crew. (Words: 4)
- EXTRACTS (Supplied by a Sub-Sub-Librarian). (Words: 5)
- Of the Monstrous Pictures of Whales. (Words: 6)
- Look at the crowds of water-gazers there. (Words: 7)
- Does the Whale’s Magnitude Diminish?—Will He Perish? (Words: 8)
- Why did the old Persians hold the sea holy? (Words: 9)
- The Deck Towards the End of the First Night Watch. (Words: 10)
- He might take a fancy to mine—heavens! look at that tomahawk! (Words: 11)

Top 10 Longest Words:
- uninterpenetratingly (Length: 20 characters)
- characteristically (Length: 18 characters)
- Circumnavigation_ (Length: 17 characters)
- uncomfortableness (Length: 17 characters)
- cannibalistically (Length: 17 characters)
- circumnavigations (Length: 17 characters)
- superstitiousness (Length: 17 characters)
- comprehensiveness (Length: 17 characters)
- preternaturalness (Length: 17 characters)
- indispensableness (Length: 17 characters)

Top 10 Most Common Letters:
- e (Occurrences: 119345)
- t (Occurrences: 89874)
- a (Occurrences: 79220)
- o (Occurrences: 70808)
- n (Occurrences: 66778)
- i (Occurrences: 66671)
- s (Occurrences: 65136)
- h (Occurrences: 63769)
- r (Occurrences: 53589)
- l (Occurrences: 43349)

Top 10 Most Common Words:
- the (Occurrences: 14715)
- of (Occurrences: 6746)
- and (Occurrences: 6513)
- a (Occurrences: 4799)
- to (Occurrences: 4709)
- in (Occurrences: 4241)
- that (Occurrences: 3081)
- it (Occurrences: 2535)
- his (Occurrences: 2530)
- i (Occurrences: 2120)
Top 10 Longest Sentences:
- Though in many natural objects, whiteness refiningly enhances beauty,
as if imparting some special virtue of its own, as in marbles,
japonicas, and pearls; and though various nations have in some way
recognised a certain royal preeminence in this hue; even the barbaric,
grand old kings of Pegu placing the title “Lord of the White Elephants”
above all their other magniloquent ascriptions of dominion; and the
modern kings of Siam unfurling the same snow-white quadruped in the
royal standard; and the Hanoverian flag bearing the one figure of a
snow-white charger; and the great Austrian Empire, Cæsarian, heir to
overlording Rome, having for the imperial colour the same imperial hue;
and though this pre-eminence in it applies to the human race itself,
giving the white man ideal mastership over every dusky tribe; and
though, besides, all this, whiteness has been even made significant of
gladness, for among the Romans a white stone marked a joyful day; and
though in other mortal sympathies and symbolizings, this same hue is
made the emblem of many touching, noble things—the innocence of brides,
the benignity of age; though among the Red Men of America the giving of
the white belt of wampum was the deepest pledge of honor; though in
many climes, whiteness typifies the majesty of Justice in the ermine of
the Judge, and contributes to the daily state of kings and queens drawn
by milk-white steeds; though even in the higher mysteries of the most
august religions it has been made the symbol of the divine spotlessness
and power; by the Persian fire worshippers, the white forked flame
being held the holiest on the altar; and in the Greek mythologies,
Great Jove himself being made incarnate in a snow-white bull; and
though to the noble Iroquois, the midwinter sacrifice of the sacred
White Dog was by far the holiest festival of their theology, that
spotless, faithful creature being held the purest envoy they could send
to the Great Spirit with the annual tidings of their own fidelity; and
though directly from the Latin word for white, all Christian priests
derive the name of one part of their sacred vesture, the alb or tunic,
worn beneath the cassock; and though among the holy pomps of the Romish
faith, white is specially employed in the celebration of the Passion of
our Lord; though in the Vision of St. (Length: 2362 characters)
- And these, when either thrown ashore or caught near the
  coast, are the property of the king.” —_Blackstone_.


  “Soon to the sport of death the crews repair: Rodmond unerring o’er
  his head suspends The barbed steel, and every turn attends.”
  —_Falconer’s Shipwreck_.

  “Bright shone the roofs, the domes, the spires, And rockets blew self
  driven, To hang their momentary fire Around the vault of heaven.

  “So fire with water to compare, The ocean serves on high, Up-spouted
  by a whale in air, To express unwieldy joy.” —_Cowper, on the Queen’s
  Visit to London_.



  “Ten or fifteen gallons of blood are thrown out of the heart at a
  stroke, with immense velocity.” —_John Hunter’s account of the
  dissection of a whale_. (_A small sized one_.)

  “The aorta of a whale is larger in the bore than the main pipe of the
  water-works at London Bridge, and the water roaring in its passage
  through that pipe is inferior in impetus and velocity to the blood
  gushing from the whale’s heart.” —_Paley’s Theology_.

  “The whale is a mammiferous animal without hind feet.” —_Baron
  Cuvier_.

  “In 40 degrees south, we saw Spermacetti Whales, but did not take any
  till the first of May, the sea being then covered with them.”
  —_Colnett’s Voyage for the Purpose of Extending the Spermaceti Whale
  Fishery_.


  “In the free element beneath me swam, Floundered and dived, in play,
  in chace, in battle, Fishes of every colour, form, and kind; Which
  language cannot paint, and mariner Had never seen; from dread
  Leviathan To insect millions peopling every wave: Gather’d in shoals
  immense, like floating islands, Led by mysterious instincts through
  that waste And trackless region, though on every side Assaulted by
  voracious enemies, Whales, sharks, and monsters, arm’d in front or
  jaw, With swords, saws, spiral horns, or hooked fangs.”
  —_Montgomery’s World before the Flood_.

  “Io! (Length: 1963 characters)
- Their fixed jav’lins in his side he wears,
  And on his back a grove of pikes appears.” —_Waller’s Battle of the
  Summer Islands_.



  “By art is created that great Leviathan, called a Commonwealth or
  State—(in Latin, Civitas) which is but an artificial man.” —_Opening
  sentence of Hobbes’s Leviathan_.

  “Silly Mansoul swallowed it without chewing, as if it had been a
  sprat in the mouth of a whale.” —_Pilgrim’s Progress_.


  “That sea beast Leviathan, which God of all his works Created hugest
  that swim the ocean stream.” —_Paradise Lost_.

  —“There Leviathan, Hugest of living creatures, in the deep Stretched
  like a promontory sleeps or swims, And seems a moving land; and at
  his gills Draws in, and at his breath spouts out a sea.” —_Ibid_.



  “The mighty whales which swim in a sea of water, and have a sea of
  oil swimming in them.” —_Fuller’s Profane and Holy State_.


  “So close behind some promontory lie The huge Leviathan to attend
  their prey, And give no chance, but swallow in the fry, Which through
  their gaping jaws mistake the way.” —_Dryden’s Annus Mirabilis_.



  “While the whale is floating at the stern of the ship, they cut off
  his head, and tow it with a boat as near the shore as it will come;
  but it will be aground in twelve or thirteen feet water.” —_Thomas
  Edge’s Ten Voyages to Spitzbergen, in Purchas_.

  “In their way they saw many whales sporting in the ocean, and in
  wantonness fuzzing up the water through their pipes and vents, which
  nature has placed on their shoulders.” —_Sir T. (Length: 1597 characters)
- He came directly from the shoal which we had just
before entered, and in which we had struck three of his companions, as
if fired with revenge for their sufferings.” Again: “At all events, the
whole circumstances taken together, all happening before my own eyes,
and producing, at the time, impressions in my mind of decided,
calculating mischief, on the part of the whale (many of which
impressions I cannot now recall), induce me to be satisfied that I am
correct in my opinion.”

Here are his reflections some time after quitting the ship, during a
black night in an open boat, when almost despairing of reaching any
hospitable shore. “The dark ocean and swelling waters were nothing; the
fears of being swallowed up by some dreadful tempest, or dashed upon
hidden rocks, with all the other ordinary subjects of fearful
contemplation, seemed scarcely entitled to a moment’s thought; the
dismal looking wreck, and _the horrid aspect and revenge of the whale_,
wholly engrossed my reflections, until day again made its appearance.”

In another place—p. 45,—he speaks of “_the mysterious and mortal attack
of the animal_.”

Secondly: The ship Union, also of Nantucket, was in the year 1807
totally lost off the Azores by a similar onset, but the authentic
particulars of this catastrophe I have never chanced to encounter,
though from the whale hunters I have now and then heard casual
allusions to it. (Length: 1427 characters)
- But, as yet, Stubb heeded not the mumblings of the banquet that was
going on so nigh him, no more than the sharks heeded the smacking of
his own epicurean lips.

“Cook, cook!—where’s that old Fleece?” he cried at length, widening his
legs still further, as if to form a more secure base for his supper;
and, at the same time darting his fork into the dish, as if stabbing
with his lance; “cook, you cook!—sail this way, cook!”

The old black, not in any very high glee at having been previously
roused from his warm hammock at a most unseasonable hour, came
shambling along from his galley, for, like many old blacks, there was
something the matter with his knee-pans, which he did not keep well
scoured like his other pans; this old Fleece, as they called him, came
shuffling and limping along, assisting his step with his tongs, which,
after a clumsy fashion, were made of straightened iron hoops; this old
Ebony floundered along, and in obedience to the word of command, came
to a dead stop on the opposite side of Stubb’s sideboard; when, with
both hands folded before him, and resting on his two-legged cane, he
bowed his arched back still further over, at the same time sideways
inclining his head, so as to bring his best ear into play.

“Cook,” said Stubb, rapidly lifting a rather reddish morsel to his
mouth, “don’t you think this steak is rather overdone? (Length: 1389 characters)
- Though amid all the smoking horror and diabolism of a sea-fight, sharks
will be seen longingly gazing up to the ship’s decks, like hungry dogs
round a table where red meat is being carved, ready to bolt down every
killed man that is tossed to them; and though, while the valiant
butchers over the deck-table are thus cannibally carving each other’s
live meat with carving-knives all gilded and tasselled, the sharks,
also, with their jewel-hilted mouths, are quarrelsomely carving away
under the table at the dead meat; and though, were you to turn the
whole affair upside down, it would still be pretty much the same thing,
that is to say, a shocking sharkish business enough for all parties;
and though sharks also are the invariable outriders of all slave ships
crossing the Atlantic, systematically trotting alongside, to be handy
in case a parcel is to be carried anywhere, or a dead slave to be
decently buried; and though one or two other like instances might be
set down, touching the set terms, places, and occasions, when sharks do
most socially congregate, and most hilariously feast; yet is there no
conceivable time or occasion when you will find them in such countless
numbers, and in gayer or more jovial spirits, than around a dead sperm
whale, moored by night to a whaleship at sea. (Length: 1317 characters)
- Skin your eyes for him, men; look sharp for
white water; if ye see but a bubble, sing out.”

All this while Tashtego, Daggoo, and Queequeg had looked on with even
more intense interest and surprise than the rest, and at the mention of
the wrinkled brow and crooked jaw they had started as if each was
separately touched by some specific recollection.

“Captain Ahab,” said Tashtego, “that white whale must be the same that
some call Moby Dick.”

“Moby Dick?” shouted Ahab. “Do ye know the white whale then, Tash?”

“Does he fan-tail a little curious, sir, before he goes down?” said the
Gay-Header deliberately.

“And has he a curious spout, too,” said Daggoo, “very bushy, even for a
parmacetty, and mighty quick, Captain Ahab?”

“And he have one, two, three—oh! good many iron in him hide, too,
Captain,” cried Queequeg disjointedly, “all twiske-tee be-twisk, like
him—him—” faltering hard for a word, and screwing his hand round and
round as though uncorking a bottle—“like him—him—”

“Corkscrew!” cried Ahab, “aye, Queequeg, the harpoons lie all twisted
and wrenched in him; aye, Daggoo, his spout is a big one, like a whole
shock of wheat, and white as a pile of our Nantucket wool after the
great annual sheep-shearing; aye, Tashtego, and he fan-tails like a
split jib in a squall. (Length: 1315 characters)
- They contain round archipelagoes of romantic
isles, even as the Polynesian waters do; in large part, are shored by
two great contrasting nations, as the Atlantic is; they furnish long
maritime approaches to our numerous territorial colonies from the East,
dotted all round their banks; here and there are frowned upon by
batteries, and by the goat-like craggy guns of lofty Mackinaw; they
have heard the fleet thunderings of naval victories; at intervals, they
yield their beaches to wild barbarians, whose red painted faces flash
from out their peltry wigwams; for leagues and leagues are flanked by
ancient and unentered forests, where the gaunt pines stand like serried
lines of kings in Gothic genealogies; those same woods harboring wild
Afric beasts of prey, and silken creatures whose exported furs give
robes to Tartar Emperors; they mirror the paved capitals of Buffalo and
Cleveland, as well as Winnebago villages; they float alike the
full-rigged merchant ship, the armed cruiser of the State, the steamer,
and the beech canoe; they are swept by Borean and dismasting blasts as
direful as any that lash the salted wave; they know what shipwrecks
are, for out of sight of land, however inland, they have drowned full
many a midnight ship with all its shrieking crew. (Length: 1294 characters)
- Until Cabaco’s published discovery, the sailors had little
foreseen it, though to be sure when, after being a little while out of
port, all hands had concluded the customary business of fitting the
whaleboats for service; when some time after this Ahab was now and then
found bestirring himself in the matter of making thole-pins with his
own hands for what was thought to be one of the spare boats, and even
solicitously cutting the small wooden skewers, which when the line is
running out are pinned over the groove in the bow: when all this was
observed in him, and particularly his solicitude in having an extra
coat of sheathing in the bottom of the boat, as if to make it better
withstand the pointed pressure of his ivory limb; and also the anxiety
he evinced in exactly shaping the thigh board, or clumsy cleat, as it
is sometimes called, the horizontal piece in the boat’s bow for bracing
the knee against in darting or stabbing at the whale; when it was
observed how often he stood up in that boat with his solitary knee
fixed in the semi-circular depression in the cleat, and with the
carpenter’s chisel gouged out a little here and straightened it a
little there; all these things, I say, had awakened much interest and
curiosity at the time. (Length: 1272 characters)
- But to-night he went out
a peddling, you see, and I don’t see what on airth keeps him so late,
unless, may be, he can’t sell his head.”

“Can’t sell his head?—What sort of a bamboozingly story is this you are
telling me?” getting into a towering rage. “Do you pretend to say,
landlord, that this harpooneer is actually engaged this blessed
Saturday night, or rather Sunday morning, in peddling his head around
this town?”

“That’s precisely it,” said the landlord, “and I told him he couldn’t
sell it here, the market’s overstocked.”

“With what?” shouted I.

“With heads to be sure; ain’t there too many heads in the world?”

“I tell you what it is, landlord,” said I quite calmly, “you’d better
stop spinning that yarn to me—I’m not green.”

“May be not,” taking out a stick and whittling a toothpick, “but I
rayther guess you’ll be done _brown_ if that ere harpooneer hears you a
slanderin’ his head.”

“I’ll break it for him,” said I, now flying into a passion again at
this unaccountable farrago of the landlord’s.

“It’s broke a’ready,” said he.

“Broke,” said I—“_broke_, do you mean?”

“Sartain, and that’s the very reason he can’t sell it, I guess.”

“Landlord,” said I, going up to him as cool as Mt. (Length: 1243 characters)
