Title: Notes from the Underground


Top 10 Shortest Sentences:
- To seventy! (Words: 2)
- Answer: Of himself. (Words: 3)
- I almost did succeed. (Words: 4)
- I am a spiteful man. (Words: 5)
- That you probably will not understand. (Words: 6)
- I am sure you are fancying that ... (Words: 7)
- My liver is bad, well—let it get worse! (Words: 8)
- I was rude and took pleasure in being so. (Words: 9)
- I, for instance, have a great deal of _amour propre_. (Words: 10)
- He is one of the representatives of a generation still living. (Words: 11)

Top 10 Longest Words:
- straightforwardness (Length: 19 characters)
- _Otetchestvenniya (Length: 17 characters)
- disproportionate (Length: 16 characters)
- _sentimentality_ (Length: 16 characters)
- unenforceability (Length: 16 characters)
- representatives (Length: 15 characters)
- impossibilities (Length: 15 characters)
- classifications (Length: 15 characters)
- extraordinarily (Length: 15 characters)
- disadvantageous (Length: 15 characters)

Top 10 Most Common Letters:
- e (Occurrences: 23710)
- t (Occurrences: 18997)
- o (Occurrences: 16077)
- a (Occurrences: 16059)
- i (Occurrences: 14908)
- n (Occurrences: 14352)
- s (Occurrences: 12173)
- h (Occurrences: 10942)
- r (Occurrences: 10561)
- l (Occurrences: 8661)

Top 10 Most Common Words:
- i (Occurrences: 1741)
- the (Occurrences: 1577)
- and (Occurrences: 1533)
- to (Occurrences: 1363)
- of (Occurrences: 1109)
- a (Occurrences: 964)
- that (Occurrences: 945)
- in (Occurrences: 838)
- it (Occurrences: 814)
- you (Occurrences: 716)
Top 10 Longest Sentences:
- On the contrary, the characteristics of our
“romantics” are absolutely and directly opposed to the transcendental
European type, and no European standard can be applied to them. (Allow
me to make use of this word “romantic”—an old-fashioned and much
respected word which has done good service and is familiar to all.) The
characteristics of our romantic are to understand everything, _to see
everything and to see it often incomparably more clearly than our most
realistic minds see it;_ to refuse to accept anyone or anything, but at
the same time not to despise anything; to give way, to yield, from
policy; never to lose sight of a useful practical object (such as
rent-free quarters at the government expense, pensions, decorations),
to keep their eye on that object through all the enthusiasms and
volumes of lyrical poems, and at the same time to preserve “the sublime
and the beautiful” inviolate within them to the hour of their death,
and to preserve themselves also, incidentally, like some precious jewel
wrapped in cotton wool if only for the benefit of “the sublime and the
beautiful.” Our “romantic” is a man of great breadth and the greatest
rogue of all our rogues, I assure you.... (Length: 1215 characters)
- Answer, now:
what did you come in to look at?”

“If you have any order to give me it’s my duty to carry it out,” he
answered, after another silent pause, with a slow, measured lisp,
raising his eyebrows and calmly twisting his head from one side to
another, all this with exasperating composure.

“That’s not what I am asking you about, you torturer!” I shouted,
turning crimson with anger. “I’ll tell you why you came here myself:
you see, I don’t give you your wages, you are so proud you don’t want
to bow down and ask for it, and so you come to punish me with your
stupid stares, to worry me and you have no sus-pic-ion how stupid it
is—stupid, stupid, stupid, stupid! ...”

He would have turned round again without a word, but I seized him.

“Listen,” I shouted to him. “Here’s the money, do you see, here it is,”
(I took it out of the table drawer); “here’s the seven roubles
complete, but you are not going to have it, you ... are ... not ...
going ... to ... have it until you come respectfully with bowed head to
beg my pardon. (Length: 1057 characters)
- How much better it
is to understand it all, to recognise it all, all the impossibilities
and the stone wall; not to be reconciled to one of those
impossibilities and stone walls if it disgusts you to be reconciled to
it; by the way of the most inevitable, logical combinations to reach
the most revolting conclusions on the everlasting theme, that even for
the stone wall you are yourself somehow to blame, though again it is as
clear as day you are not to blame in the least, and therefore grinding
your teeth in silent impotence to sink into luxurious inertia, brooding
on the fact that there is no one even for you to feel vindictive
against, that you have not, and perhaps never will have, an object for
your spite, that it is a sleight of hand, a bit of juggling, a
card-sharper’s trick, that it is simply a mess, no knowing what and no
knowing who, but in spite of all these uncertainties and jugglings,
still there is an ache in you, and the more you do not know, the worse
the ache. (Length: 1005 characters)
- But I had already clutched at the idea and would not give it up.

“It seems to me that no one has a right to form an opinion upon that,”
I retorted in a shaking voice, as though something tremendous had
happened. “Perhaps that is just my reason for wishing it now, that I
have not always been on good terms with him.”

“Oh, there’s no making you out ... with these refinements,” Trudolyubov
jeered.

“We’ll put your name down,” Simonov decided, addressing me. “Tomorrow
at five-o’clock at the Hôtel de Paris.”

“What about the money?” Ferfitchkin began in an undertone, indicating
me to Simonov, but he broke off, for even Simonov was embarrassed.

“That will do,” said Trudolyubov, getting up. “If he wants to come so
much, let him.”

“But it’s a private thing, between us friends,” Ferfitchkin said
crossly, as he, too, picked up his hat. “It’s not an official
gathering.”

“We do not want at all, perhaps ...”

They went away. (Length: 954 characters)
- Disorder, the remains of dinner, a
broken wine-glass on the floor, spilt wine, cigarette ends, fumes of
drink and delirium in my brain, an agonising misery in my heart and
finally the waiter, who had seen and heard all and was looking
inquisitively into my face.

“I am going there!” I cried. “Either they shall all go down on their
knees to beg for my friendship, or I will give Zverkov a slap in the
face!”




V


“So this is it, this is it at last—contact with real life,” I muttered
as I ran headlong downstairs. “This is very different from the Pope’s
leaving Rome and going to Brazil, very different from the ball on Lake
Como!”

“You are a scoundrel,” a thought flashed through my mind, “if you laugh
at this now.”

“No matter!” I cried, answering myself. “Now everything is lost!”

There was no trace to be seen of them, but that made no difference—I
knew where they had gone. (Length: 912 characters)
- He will accept
from delicacy, but he will order half a dozen bottles of champagne.”

“Do we want half a dozen for the four of us?” observed Trudolyubov,
taking notice only of the half dozen.

“So the three of us, with Zverkov for the fourth, twenty-one roubles,
at the Hôtel de Paris at five o’clock tomorrow,” Simonov, who had been
asked to make the arrangements, concluded finally.

“How twenty-one roubles?” I asked in some agitation, with a show of
being offended; “if you count me it will not be twenty-one, but
twenty-eight roubles.”

It seemed to me that to invite myself so suddenly and unexpectedly
would be positively graceful, and that they would all be conquered at
once and would look at me with respect.

“Do you want to join, too?” Simonov observed, with no appearance of
pleasure, seeming to avoid looking at me. (Length: 847 characters)
- I was particularly pleased with a certain lightness, almost
carelessness (strictly within the bounds of politeness, however), which
was apparent in my style, and better than any possible arguments, gave
them at once to understand that I took rather an independent view of
“all that unpleasantness last night”; that I was by no means so utterly
crushed as you, my friends, probably imagine; but on the contrary,
looked upon it as a gentleman serenely respecting himself should look
upon it. “On a young hero’s past no censure is cast!”

“There is actually an aristocratic playfulness about it!” I thought
admiringly, as I read over the letter. “And it’s all because I am an
intellectual and cultivated man! (Length: 716 characters)
- I saw it all,
I divined it, but I did not dare to approach you first, because I had
an influence over you and was afraid that you would force yourself,
from gratitude, to respond to my love, would try to rouse in your heart
a feeling which was perhaps absent, and I did not wish that ... because
it would be tyranny ... it would be indelicate (in short, I launch off
at that point into European, inexplicably lofty subtleties a la George
Sand), but now, now you are mine, you are my creation, you are pure,
you are good, you are my noble wife.

‘Into my house come bold and free,
Its rightful mistress there to be’.”


Then we begin living together, go abroad and so on, and so on. (Length: 695 characters)
- The fact is,
gentlemen, it seems there must really exist something that is dearer to
almost every man than his greatest advantages, or (not to be illogical)
there is a most advantageous advantage (the very one omitted of which
we spoke just now) which is more important and more advantageous than
all other advantages, for the sake of which a man if necessary is ready
to act in opposition to all laws; that is, in opposition to reason,
honour, peace, prosperity—in fact, in opposition to all those excellent
and useful things if only he can attain that fundamental, most
advantageous advantage which is dearer to him than all. “Yes, but it’s
advantage all the same,” you will retort. (Length: 694 characters)
- I sat down beside her and took her hands; she came to
herself, made an impulsive movement towards me, would have caught hold
of me, but did not dare, and slowly bowed her head before me.

“Liza, my dear, I was wrong ... forgive me, my dear,” I began, but she
squeezed my hand in her fingers so tightly that I felt I was saying the
wrong thing and stopped.

“This is my address, Liza, come to me.”

“I will come,” she answered resolutely, her head still bowed.

“But now I am going, good-bye ... till we meet again.”

I got up; she, too, stood up and suddenly flushed all over, gave a
shudder, snatched up a shawl that was lying on a chair and muffled
herself in it to her chin. (Length: 693 characters)
