Title: Sense and Sensibility


Top 10 Shortest Sentences:
- But Mrs. (Words: 2)
- They set off. (Words: 3)
- So acutely did Mrs. (Words: 4)
- By a former marriage, Mr. (Words: 5)
- Dashwood it was valued and cherished. (Words: 6)
- My mother was quite sick of it. (Words: 7)
- He then really thought himself equal to it. (Words: 8)
- No sooner was his father’s funeral over, than Mrs. (Words: 9)
- The family of Dashwood had long been settled in Sussex. (Words: 10)
- Willoughby took his usual place between the two elder Miss Dashwoods. (Words: 11)

Top 10 Longest Words:
- disinterestedness (Length: 17 characters)
- companionableness (Length: 17 characters)
- disqualifications (Length: 17 characters)
- incomprehensible (Length: 16 characters)
- unenforceability (Length: 16 characters)
- conscientiously (Length: 15 characters)
- disappointments (Length: 15 characters)
- representations (Length: 15 characters)
- misapprehension (Length: 15 characters)
- inconsiderately (Length: 15 characters)

Top 10 Most Common Letters:
- e (Occurrences: 68482)
- t (Occurrences: 46535)
- o (Occurrences: 43392)
- a (Occurrences: 41488)
- n (Occurrences: 39479)
- i (Occurrences: 37746)
- r (Occurrences: 34468)
- s (Occurrences: 33537)
- h (Occurrences: 32849)
- d (Occurrences: 22843)

Top 10 Most Common Words:
- the (Occurrences: 4294)
- to (Occurrences: 4198)
- of (Occurrences: 3694)
- and (Occurrences: 3559)
- her (Occurrences: 2514)
- a (Occurrences: 2147)
- in (Occurrences: 2037)
- i (Occurrences: 1992)
- was (Occurrences: 1854)
- it (Occurrences: 1772)
Top 10 Longest Sentences:
- I know of no submission that _is_ proper for me to make.”

“You may certainly ask to be forgiven,” said Elinor, “because you have
offended;—and I should think you might _now_ venture so far as to
profess some concern for having ever formed the engagement which drew
on you your mother’s anger.”

He agreed that he might.

“And when she has forgiven you, perhaps a little humility may be
convenient while acknowledging a second engagement, almost as imprudent
in _her_ eyes as the first.”

He had nothing to urge against it, but still resisted the idea of a
letter of proper submission; and therefore, to make it easier to him,
as he declared a much greater willingness to make mean concessions by
word of mouth than on paper, it was resolved that, instead of writing
to Fanny, he should go to London, and personally intreat her good
offices in his favour. “And if they really _do_ interest themselves,”
said Marianne, in her new character of candour, “in bringing about a
reconciliation, I shall think that even John and Fanny are not entirely
without merit.”

After a visit on Colonel Brandon’s side of only three or four days, the
two gentlemen quitted Barton together. (Length: 1195 characters)
- Title: Sense and Sensibility


Author: Jane Austen

Release date: September 1, 1994 [eBook #161]
                Most recently updated: March 16, 2021

Language: English



*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SENSE AND SENSIBILITY ***
[Illustration]




Sense and Sensibility

by Jane Austen

(1811)


Contents

 CHAPTER I
 CHAPTER II
 CHAPTER III
 CHAPTER IV
 CHAPTER V
 CHAPTER VI
 CHAPTER VII
 CHAPTER VIII
 CHAPTER IX
 CHAPTER X
 CHAPTER XI
 CHAPTER XII
 CHAPTER XIII
 CHAPTER XIV
 CHAPTER XV
 CHAPTER XVI
 CHAPTER XVII
 CHAPTER XVIII
 CHAPTER XIX
 CHAPTER XX
 CHAPTER XXI
 CHAPTER XXII
 CHAPTER XXIII
 CHAPTER XXIV
 CHAPTER XXV
 CHAPTER XXVI
 CHAPTER XXVII
 CHAPTER XXVIII
 CHAPTER XXIX
 CHAPTER XXX
 CHAPTER XXXI
 CHAPTER XXXII
 CHAPTER XXXIII
 CHAPTER XXXIV
 CHAPTER XXXV
 CHAPTER XXXVI
 CHAPTER XXXVII
 CHAPTER XXXVIII
 CHAPTER XXXIX
 CHAPTER XL
 CHAPTER XLI
 CHAPTER XLII
 CHAPTER XLIII
 CHAPTER XLIV
 CHAPTER XLV
 CHAPTER XLVI
 CHAPTER XLVII
 CHAPTER XLVIII
 CHAPTER XLIX
 CHAPTER L




CHAPTER I. (Length: 1093 characters)
- He _looked_ all the astonishment
which such unexpected, such unthought-of information could not fail of
exciting; but he said only these two words,—

“Colonel Brandon!”

“Yes,” continued Elinor, gathering more resolution, as some of the
worst was over, “Colonel Brandon means it as a testimony of his concern
for what has lately passed—for the cruel situation in which the
unjustifiable conduct of your family has placed you—a concern which I
am sure Marianne, myself, and all your friends, must share; and
likewise as a proof of his high esteem for your general character, and
his particular approbation of your behaviour on the present occasion.”

“Colonel Brandon give _me_ a living!—Can it be possible?”

“The unkindness of your own relations has made you astonished to find
friendship any where.”

“No,” replied he, with sudden consciousness, “not to find it in _you;_
for I cannot be ignorant that to you, to your goodness, I owe it all.—I
feel it—I would express it if I could—but, as you well know, I am no
orator.”

“You are very much mistaken. (Length: 1077 characters)
- He has loved her, my Elinor, ever since the first moment of seeing
her.”

Here, however, Elinor perceived,—not the language, not the professions
of Colonel Brandon, but the natural embellishments of her mother’s
active fancy, which fashioned every thing delightful to her as it
chose.

“His regard for her, infinitely surpassing anything that Willoughby
ever felt or feigned, as much more warm, as more sincere or
constant—which ever we are to call it—has subsisted through all the
knowledge of dear Marianne’s unhappy prepossession for that worthless
young man!—and without selfishness—without encouraging a hope!—could he
have seen her happy with another—Such a noble mind!—such openness, such
sincerity!—no one can be deceived in _him_.”

“Colonel Brandon’s character,” said Elinor, “as an excellent man, is
well established.”

“I know it is,”—replied her mother seriously, “or after such a warning,
_I_ should be the last to encourage such affection, or even to be
pleased by it. (Length: 1004 characters)
- It suggested no other
surprise than that Elinor and Marianne should sit so composedly by,
without claiming a share in what was passing.

“John is in such spirits today!” said she, on his taking Miss Steeles’s
pocket handkerchief, and throwing it out of window—“He is full of
monkey tricks.”

And soon afterwards, on the second boy’s violently pinching one of the
same lady’s fingers, she fondly observed, “How playful William is!”

“And here is my sweet little Annamaria,” she added, tenderly caressing
a little girl of three years old, who had not made a noise for the last
two minutes; “And she is always so gentle and quiet—Never was there
such a quiet little thing!”

But unfortunately in bestowing these embraces, a pin in her ladyship’s
head dress slightly scratching the child’s neck, produced from this
pattern of gentleness such violent screams, as could hardly be outdone
by any creature professedly noisy. (Length: 935 characters)
- Dashwood, after a short pause, “of
_Robert’s_ marrying Miss Morton.”

Elinor, smiling at the grave and decisive importance of her brother’s
tone, calmly replied,—

“The lady, I suppose, has no choice in the affair.”

“Choice!—how do you mean?”

“I only mean that I suppose, from your manner of speaking, it must be
the same to Miss Morton whether she marry Edward or Robert.”

“Certainly, there can be no difference; for Robert will now to all
intents and purposes be considered as the eldest son;—and as to any
thing else, they are both very agreeable young men: I do not know that
one is superior to the other.”

Elinor said no more, and John was also for a short time silent.—His
reflections ended thus.

“Of _one_ thing, my dear sister,” kindly taking her hand, and speaking
in an awful whisper, “I may assure you;—and I _will_ do it, because I
know it must gratify you. (Length: 897 characters)
- Nothing could have done it away to my feelings.”

“I know it—I know it,” cried her mother. “Happy with a man of libertine
practices!—With one who so injured the peace of the dearest of our
friends, and the best of men!—No—my Marianne has not a heart to be made
happy with such a man!—Her conscience, her sensitive conscience, would
have felt all that the conscience of her husband ought to have felt.”

Marianne sighed, and repeated, “I wish for no change.”

“You consider the matter,” said Elinor, “exactly as a good mind and a
sound understanding must consider it; and I dare say you perceive, as
well as myself, not only in this, but in many other circumstances,
reason enough to be convinced that your marriage must have involved you
in many certain troubles and disappointments, in which you would have
been poorly supported by an affection, on his side, much less certain. (Length: 893 characters)
- The impertinence of these kind of scrutinies, moreover, was generally
concluded with a compliment, which though meant as its douceur, was
considered by Marianne as the greatest impertinence of all; for after
undergoing an examination into the value and make of her gown, the
colour of her shoes, and the arrangement of her hair, she was almost
sure of being told that upon “her word she looked vastly smart, and she
dared to say she would make a great many conquests.”

With such encouragement as this, was she dismissed on the present
occasion, to her brother’s carriage; which they were ready to enter
five minutes after it stopped at the door, a punctuality not very
agreeable to their sister-in-law, who had preceded them to the house of
her acquaintance, and was there hoping for some delay on their part
that might inconvenience either herself or her coachman. (Length: 879 characters)
- I never saw such fine
children in my life.—I declare I quite doat upon them already, and
indeed I am always distractedly fond of children.”

“I should guess so,” said Elinor, with a smile, “from what I have
witnessed this morning.”

“I have a notion,” said Lucy, “you think the little Middletons rather
too much indulged; perhaps they may be the outside of enough; but it is
so natural in Lady Middleton; and for my part, I love to see children
full of life and spirits; I cannot bear them if they are tame and
quiet.”

“I confess,” replied Elinor, “that while I am at Barton Park, I never
think of tame and quiet children with any abhorrence.”

A short pause succeeded this speech, which was first broken by Miss
Steele, who seemed very much disposed for conversation, and who now
said rather abruptly, “And how do you like Devonshire, Miss Dashwood? (Length: 869 characters)
- He will be there in February, otherwise
London would have no charms for me; I have not spirits for it.”

Elinor was soon called to the card-table by the conclusion of the first
rubber, and the confidential discourse of the two ladies was therefore
at an end, to which both of them submitted without any reluctance, for
nothing had been said on either side to make them dislike each other
less than they had done before; and Elinor sat down to the card table
with the melancholy persuasion that Edward was not only without
affection for the person who was to be his wife; but that he had not
even the chance of being tolerably happy in marriage, which sincere
affection on _her_ side would have given, for self-interest alone could
induce a woman to keep a man to an engagement, of which she seemed so
thoroughly aware that he was weary. (Length: 849 characters)
