Title: The Picture of Dorian Gray


Top 10 Shortest Sentences:
- CHAPTER II. (Words: 2)
- That is all. (Words: 3)
- This is a fault. (Words: 4)
- For these there is hope. (Words: 5)
- What odd chaps you painters are! (Words: 6)
- In the grass, white daisies were tremulous. (Words: 7)
- Even things that are true can be proved. (Words: 8)
- If I did, I would lose all my pleasure. (Words: 9)
- It is better not to be different from one’s fellows. (Words: 10)
- Vice and virtue are to the artist materials for an art. (Words: 11)

Top 10 Longest Words:
- responsibilities (Length: 16 characters)
- unenforceability (Length: 16 characters)
- extraordinarily (Length: 15 characters)
- picturesqueness (Length: 15 characters)
- instantaneously (Length: 15 characters)
- sentimentalists (Length: 15 characters)
- representations (Length: 15 characters)
- Nottinghamshire (Length: 15 characters)
- MERCHANTABILITY (Length: 15 characters)
- intellectually (Length: 14 characters)

Top 10 Most Common Letters:
- e (Occurrences: 42287)
- t (Occurrences: 30710)
- a (Occurrences: 28483)
- o (Occurrences: 27477)
- i (Occurrences: 24586)
- n (Occurrences: 22469)
- h (Occurrences: 22468)
- s (Occurrences: 21237)
- r (Occurrences: 20704)
- d (Occurrences: 15729)

Top 10 Most Common Words:
- the (Occurrences: 3956)
- of (Occurrences: 2301)
- and (Occurrences: 2277)
- to (Occurrences: 2183)
- a (Occurrences: 1729)
- i (Occurrences: 1696)
- he (Occurrences: 1544)
- you (Occurrences: 1520)
- that (Occurrences: 1376)
- it (Occurrences: 1358)
Top 10 Longest Sentences:
- Over and over again Dorian used to read this fantastic chapter, and the
two chapters immediately following, in which, as in some curious
tapestries or cunningly wrought enamels, were pictured the awful and
beautiful forms of those whom vice and blood and weariness had made
monstrous or mad: Filippo, Duke of Milan, who slew his wife and painted
her lips with a scarlet poison that her lover might suck death from the
dead thing he fondled; Pietro Barbi, the Venetian, known as Paul the
Second, who sought in his vanity to assume the title of Formosus, and
whose tiara, valued at two hundred thousand florins, was bought at the
price of a terrible sin; Gian Maria Visconti, who used hounds to chase
living men and whose murdered body was covered with roses by a harlot
who had loved him; the Borgia on his white horse, with Fratricide
riding beside him and his mantle stained with the blood of Perotto;
Pietro Riario, the young Cardinal Archbishop of Florence, child and
minion of Sixtus IV., whose beauty was equalled only by his debauchery,
and who received Leonora of Aragon in a pavilion of white and crimson
silk, filled with nymphs and centaurs, and gilded a boy that he might
serve at the feast as Ganymede or Hylas; Ezzelin, whose melancholy
could be cured only by the spectacle of death, and who had a passion
for red blood, as other men have for red wine—the son of the Fiend, as
was reported, and one who had cheated his father at dice when gambling
with him for his own soul; Giambattista Cibo, who in mockery took the
name of Innocent and into whose torpid veins the blood of three lads
was infused by a Jewish doctor; Sigismondo Malatesta, the lover of
Isotta and the lord of Rimini, whose effigy was burned at Rome as the
enemy of God and man, who strangled Polyssena with a napkin, and gave
poison to Ginevra d’Este in a cup of emerald, and in honour of a
shameful passion built a pagan church for Christian worship; Charles
VI., who had so wildly adored his brother’s wife that a leper had
warned him of the insanity that was coming on him, and who, when his
brain had sickened and grown strange, could only be soothed by Saracen
cards painted with the images of love and death and madness; and, in
his trimmed jerkin and jewelled cap and acanthuslike curls, Grifonetto
Baglioni, who slew Astorre with his bride, and Simonetto with his page,
and whose comeliness was such that, as he lay dying in the yellow
piazza of Perugia, those who had hated him could not choose but weep,
and Atalanta, who had cursed him, blessed him. (Length: 2577 characters)
- In the seventh chapter he tells how,
crowned with laurel, lest lightning might strike him, he had sat, as
Tiberius, in a garden at Capri, reading the shameful books of
Elephantis, while dwarfs and peacocks strutted round him and the
flute-player mocked the swinger of the censer; and, as Caligula, had
caroused with the green-shirted jockeys in their stables and supped in
an ivory manger with a jewel-frontleted horse; and, as Domitian, had
wandered through a corridor lined with marble mirrors, looking round
with haggard eyes for the reflection of the dagger that was to end his
days, and sick with that ennui, that terrible _tædium vitæ_, that comes
on those to whom life denies nothing; and had peered through a clear
emerald at the red shambles of the circus and then, in a litter of
pearl and purple drawn by silver-shod mules, been carried through the
Street of Pomegranates to a House of Gold and heard men cry on Nero
Caesar as he passed by; and, as Elagabalus, had painted his face with
colours, and plied the distaff among the women, and brought the Moon
from Carthage and given her in mystic marriage to the Sun. (Length: 1141 characters)
- Fortunately for him she had on the other side Lord Faudel, a most
intelligent middle-aged mediocrity, as bald as a ministerial statement
in the House of Commons, with whom she was conversing in that intensely
earnest manner which is the one unpardonable error, as he remarked once
himself, that all really good people fall into, and from which none of
them ever quite escape.

“We are talking about poor Dartmoor, Lord Henry,” cried the duchess,
nodding pleasantly to him across the table. “Do you think he will
really marry this fascinating young person?”

“I believe she has made up her mind to propose to him, Duchess.”

“How dreadful!” exclaimed Lady Agatha. “Really, some one should
interfere.”

“I am told, on excellent authority, that her father keeps an American
dry-goods store,” said Sir Thomas Burdon, looking supercilious.

“My uncle has already suggested pork-packing, Sir Thomas.”

“Dry-goods! (Length: 928 characters)
- He had painted gourds filled with pebbles that rattled when
they were shaken; the long _clarin_ of the Mexicans, into which the
performer does not blow, but through which he inhales the air; the
harsh _ture_ of the Amazon tribes, that is sounded by the sentinels who
sit all day long in high trees, and can be heard, it is said, at a
distance of three leagues; the _teponaztli_, that has two vibrating
tongues of wood and is beaten with sticks that are smeared with an
elastic gum obtained from the milky juice of plants; the _yotl_-bells
of the Aztecs, that are hung in clusters like grapes; and a huge
cylindrical drum, covered with the skins of great serpents, like the
one that Bernal Diaz saw when he went with Cortes into the Mexican
temple, and of whose doleful sound he has left us so vivid a
description. (Length: 825 characters)
- And yet—”

“Just turn your head a little more to the right, Dorian, like a good
boy,” said the painter, deep in his work and conscious only that a look
had come into the lad’s face that he had never seen there before.

“And yet,” continued Lord Henry, in his low, musical voice, and with
that graceful wave of the hand that was always so characteristic of
him, and that he had even in his Eton days, “I believe that if one man
were to live out his life fully and completely, were to give form to
every feeling, expression to every thought, reality to every dream—I
believe that the world would gain such a fresh impulse of joy that we
would forget all the maladies of mediævalism, and return to the
Hellenic ideal—to something finer, richer than the Hellenic ideal, it
may be. (Length: 790 characters)
- He read
of the swallows that fly in and out of the little _café_ at Smyrna
where the Hadjis sit counting their amber beads and the turbaned
merchants smoke their long tasselled pipes and talk gravely to each
other; he read of the Obelisk in the Place de la Concorde that weeps
tears of granite in its lonely sunless exile and longs to be back by
the hot, lotus-covered Nile, where there are Sphinxes, and rose-red
ibises, and white vultures with gilded claws, and crocodiles with small
beryl eyes that crawl over the green steaming mud; he began to brood
over those verses which, drawing music from kiss-stained marble, tell
of that curious statue that Gautier compares to a contralto voice, the
“_monstre charmant_” that couches in the porphyry-room of the Louvre. (Length: 776 characters)
- And so, for a whole year, he sought to accumulate the most exquisite
specimens that he could find of textile and embroidered work, getting
the dainty Delhi muslins, finely wrought with gold-thread palmates and
stitched over with iridescent beetles’ wings; the Dacca gauzes, that
from their transparency are known in the East as “woven air,” and
“running water,” and “evening dew”; strange figured cloths from Java;
elaborate yellow Chinese hangings; books bound in tawny satins or fair
blue silks and wrought with _fleurs-de-lis_, birds and images; veils of
_lacis_ worked in Hungary point; Sicilian brocades and stiff Spanish
velvets; Georgian work, with its gilt coins, and Japanese _Foukousas_,
with their green-toned golds and their marvellously plumaged birds. (Length: 775 characters)
- A mist makes things wonderful.”

“One may lose one’s way.”

“All ways end at the same point, my dear Gladys.”

“What is that?”

“Disillusion.”

“It was my _début_ in life,” she sighed.

“It came to you crowned.”

“I am tired of strawberry leaves.”

“They become you.”

“Only in public.”

“You would miss them,” said Lord Henry.

“I will not part with a petal.”

“Monmouth has ears.”

“Old age is dull of hearing.”

“Has he never been jealous?”

“I wish he had been.”

He glanced about as if in search of something. “What are you looking
for?” she inquired.

“The button from your foil,” he answered. “You have dropped it.”

She laughed. “I have still the mask.”

“It makes your eyes lovelier,” was his reply. (Length: 747 characters)
- He saw that there was no mood of the mind that had not
its counterpart in the sensuous life, and set himself to discover their
true relations, wondering what there was in frankincense that made one
mystical, and in ambergris that stirred one’s passions, and in violets
that woke the memory of dead romances, and in musk that troubled the
brain, and in champak that stained the imagination; and seeking often
to elaborate a real psychology of perfumes, and to estimate the several
influences of sweet-smelling roots and scented, pollen-laden flowers;
of aromatic balms and of dark and fragrant woods; of spikenard, that
sickens; of hovenia, that makes men mad; and of aloes, that are said to
be able to expel melancholy from the soul. (Length: 743 characters)
- He longed to see the curious
table-napkins wrought for the Priest of the Sun, on which were
displayed all the dainties and viands that could be wanted for a feast;
the mortuary cloth of King Chilperic, with its three hundred golden
bees; the fantastic robes that excited the indignation of the Bishop of
Pontus and were figured with “lions, panthers, bears, dogs, forests,
rocks, hunters—all, in fact, that a painter can copy from nature”; and
the coat that Charles of Orleans once wore, on the sleeves of which
were embroidered the verses of a song beginning “_Madame, je suis tout
joyeux_,” the musical accompaniment of the words being wrought in gold
thread, and each note, of square shape in those days, formed with four
pearls. (Length: 743 characters)
