Title: The Wonderful Wizard of Oz


Top 10 Shortest Sentences:
- But, alas! (Words: 2)
- Uncle Henry never laughed. (Words: 4)
- Then a strange thing happened. (Words: 5)
- Today, however, they were not playing. (Words: 6)
- So I tried to walk after them. (Words: 7)
- But the little woman was doubtless much older. (Words: 8)
- The country of the Quadlings seemed rich and happy. (Words: 9)
- Aunt Em dropped her work and came to the door. (Words: 10)
- Dorothy caught Toto at last and started to follow her aunt. (Words: 11)
- Three were men and one a woman, and all were oddly dressed. (Words: 12)

Top 10 Longest Words:
- unenforceability (Length: 16 characters)
- discouragements (Length: 15 characters)
- representations (Length: 15 characters)
- MERCHANTABILITY (Length: 15 characters)
- confidentially (Length: 14 characters)
- disappointment (Length: 14 characters)
- Redistribution (Length: 14 characters)
- redistribution (Length: 14 characters)
- Redistributing (Length: 14 characters)
- redistributing (Length: 14 characters)

Top 10 Most Common Letters:
- e (Occurrences: 22261)
- t (Occurrences: 16378)
- o (Occurrences: 14240)
- a (Occurrences: 13887)
- h (Occurrences: 11977)
- n (Occurrences: 10752)
- r (Occurrences: 10534)
- i (Occurrences: 10350)
- s (Occurrences: 9689)
- d (Occurrences: 8888)

Top 10 Most Common Words:
- the (Occurrences: 3196)
- and (Occurrences: 1737)
- to (Occurrences: 1200)
- of (Occurrences: 973)
- a (Occurrences: 865)
- i (Occurrences: 649)
- you (Occurrences: 570)
- in (Occurrences: 543)
- was (Occurrences: 506)
- he (Occurrences: 460)
Top 10 Longest Sentences:
- He was glad
to find his friends waiting for him, and told them of his terrible
interview with the Wizard.

“What shall we do now?” asked Dorothy sadly.

“There is only one thing we can do,” returned the Lion, “and that is to
go to the land of the Winkies, seek out the Wicked Witch, and destroy
her.”

“But suppose we cannot?” said the girl.

“Then I shall never have courage,” declared the Lion.

“And I shall never have brains,” added the Scarecrow.

“And I shall never have a heart,” spoke the Tin Woodman.

“And I shall never see Aunt Em and Uncle Henry,” said Dorothy,
beginning to cry.

“Be careful!” cried the green girl. “The tears will fall on your green
silk gown and spot it.”

So Dorothy dried her eyes and said, “I suppose we must try it; but I am
sure I do not want to kill anybody, even to see Aunt Em again.”

“I will go with you; but I’m too much of a coward to kill the Witch,”
said the Lion.

“I will go too,” declared the Scarecrow; “but I shall not be of much
help to you, I am such a fool.”

“I haven’t the heart to harm even a Witch,” remarked the Tin Woodman;
“but if you go I certainly shall go with you.”

Therefore it was decided to start upon their journey the next morning,
and the Woodman sharpened his axe on a green grindstone and had all his
joints properly oiled. (Length: 1335 characters)
- So they sat down upon the bank and gazed wistfully at the Scarecrow
until a Stork flew by, who, upon seeing them, stopped to rest at the
water’s edge.

“Who are you and where are you going?” asked the Stork.

“I am Dorothy,” answered the girl, “and these are my friends, the Tin
Woodman and the Cowardly Lion; and we are going to the Emerald City.”

“This isn’t the road,” said the Stork, as she twisted her long neck and
looked sharply at the queer party.

“I know it,” returned Dorothy, “but we have lost the Scarecrow, and are
wondering how we shall get him again.”

“Where is he?” asked the Stork.

“Over there in the river,” answered the little girl.

“If he wasn’t so big and heavy I would get him for you,” remarked the
Stork.

“He isn’t heavy a bit,” said Dorothy eagerly, “for he is stuffed with
straw; and if you will bring him back to us, we shall thank you ever
and ever so much.”

“Well, I’ll try,” said the Stork, “but if I find he is too heavy to
carry I shall have to drop him in the river again.”

So the big bird flew into the air and over the water till she came to
where the Scarecrow was perched upon his pole. (Length: 1161 characters)
- Dorothy told the Witch all her story: how the cyclone had brought her
to the Land of Oz, how she had found her companions, and of the
wonderful adventures they had met with.

“My greatest wish now,” she added, “is to get back to Kansas, for Aunt
Em will surely think something dreadful has happened to me, and that
will make her put on mourning; and unless the crops are better this
year than they were last, I am sure Uncle Henry cannot afford it.”

Glinda leaned forward and kissed the sweet, upturned face of the loving
little girl.

“Bless your dear heart,” she said, “I am sure I can tell you of a way
to get back to Kansas.” Then she added, “But, if I do, you must give me
the Golden Cap.”

“Willingly!” exclaimed Dorothy; “indeed, it is of no use to me now, and
when you have it you can command the Winged Monkeys three times.”

“And I think I shall need their service just those three times,”
answered Glinda, smiling. (Length: 946 characters)
- Indeed he was obliged to call to her to help him up
again.

“Why didn’t you walk around the hole?” asked the Tin Woodman.

“I don’t know enough,” replied the Scarecrow cheerfully. “My head is
stuffed with straw, you know, and that is why I am going to Oz to ask
him for some brains.”

“Oh, I see,” said the Tin Woodman. “But, after all, brains are not the
best things in the world.”

“Have you any?” inquired the Scarecrow.

“No, my head is quite empty,” answered the Woodman. “But once I had
brains, and a heart also; so, having tried them both, I should much
rather have a heart.”

“And why is that?” asked the Scarecrow.

“I will tell you my story, and then you will know.”

So, while they were walking through the forest, the Tin Woodman told
the following story:

“I was born the son of a woodman who chopped down trees in the forest
and sold the wood for a living. (Length: 896 characters)
- But who the real Oz is,
when he is in his own form, no living person can tell.”

“That is very strange,” said Dorothy, “but we must try, in some way, to
see him, or we shall have made our journey for nothing.”

“Why do you wish to see the terrible Oz?” asked the man.

“I want him to give me some brains,” said the Scarecrow eagerly.

“Oh, Oz could do that easily enough,” declared the man. “He has more
brains than he needs.”

“And I want him to give me a heart,” said the Tin Woodman.

“That will not trouble him,” continued the man, “for Oz has a large
collection of hearts, of all sizes and shapes.”

“And I want him to give me courage,” said the Cowardly Lion.

“Oz keeps a great pot of courage in his Throne Room,” said the man,
“which he has covered with a golden plate, to keep it from running
over. (Length: 829 characters)
- If you will please take away
the pole I shall be greatly obliged to you.”

Dorothy reached up both arms and lifted the figure off the pole, for,
being stuffed with straw, it was quite light.

“Thank you very much,” said the Scarecrow, when he had been set down on
the ground. “I feel like a new man.”

Dorothy was puzzled at this, for it sounded queer to hear a stuffed man
speak, and to see him bow and walk along beside her.

“Who are you?” asked the Scarecrow when he had stretched himself and
yawned. “And where are you going?”

“My name is Dorothy,” said the girl, “and I am going to the Emerald
City, to ask the Great Oz to send me back to Kansas.”

“Where is the Emerald City?” he inquired. “And who is Oz?”

“Why, don’t you know?” she returned, in surprise.

“No, indeed. (Length: 801 characters)
- The Tin Woodman, raising his axe, rushed toward the little man and
cried out, “Who are you?”

“I am Oz, the Great and Terrible,” said the little man, in a trembling
voice. “But don’t strike me—please don’t—and I’ll do anything you want
me to.”

Our friends looked at him in surprise and dismay.

“I thought Oz was a great Head,” said Dorothy.

“And I thought Oz was a lovely Lady,” said the Scarecrow.

“And I thought Oz was a terrible Beast,” said the Tin Woodman.

“And I thought Oz was a Ball of Fire,” exclaimed the Lion.

“No, you are all wrong,” said the little man meekly. “I have been
making believe.”

“Making believe!” cried Dorothy. “Are you not a Great Wizard?”

“Hush, my dear,” he said. “Don’t speak so loud, or you will be
overheard—and I should be ruined. (Length: 794 characters)
- If he does, I will go back to the Munchkin maiden and marry her.”

Both Dorothy and the Scarecrow had been greatly interested in the story
of the Tin Woodman, and now they knew why he was so anxious to get a
new heart.

“All the same,” said the Scarecrow, “I shall ask for brains instead of
a heart; for a fool would not know what to do with a heart if he had
one.”

“I shall take the heart,” returned the Tin Woodman; “for brains do not
make one happy, and happiness is the best thing in the world.”

Dorothy did not say anything, for she was puzzled to know which of her
two friends was right, and she decided if she could only get back to
Kansas and Aunt Em, it did not matter so much whether the Woodman had
no brains and the Scarecrow no heart, or each got what he wanted. (Length: 793 characters)
- I will now seat myself upon my throne, that you
may converse with me.” Indeed, the Voice seemed just then to come
straight from the throne itself; so they walked toward it and stood in
a row while Dorothy said:

“We have come to claim our promise, O Oz.”

“What promise?” asked Oz.

“You promised to send me back to Kansas when the Wicked Witch was
destroyed,” said the girl.

“And you promised to give me brains,” said the Scarecrow.

“And you promised to give me a heart,” said the Tin Woodman.

“And you promised to give me courage,” said the Cowardly Lion.

“Is the Wicked Witch really destroyed?” asked the Voice, and Dorothy
thought it trembled a little.

“Yes,” she answered, “I melted her with a bucket of water.”

“Dear me,” said the Voice, “how sudden! (Length: 785 characters)
- I’ve never looked to see,” replied the Lion.

“I am going to the Great Oz to ask him to give me some,” remarked the
Scarecrow, “for my head is stuffed with straw.”

“And I am going to ask him to give me a heart,” said the Woodman.

“And I am going to ask him to send Toto and me back to Kansas,” added
Dorothy.

“Do you think Oz could give me courage?” asked the Cowardly Lion.

“Just as easily as he could give me brains,” said the Scarecrow.

“Or give me a heart,” said the Tin Woodman.

“Or send me back to Kansas,” said Dorothy.

“Then, if you don’t mind, I’ll go with you,” said the Lion, “for my
life is simply unbearable without a bit of courage.”

“You will be very welcome,” answered Dorothy, “for you will help to
keep away the other wild beasts. (Length: 778 characters)
