Title: The Interesting Narrative of the Life of Olaudah Equiano, Or Gustavus Vassa, The African


Top 10 Shortest Sentences:
- Johnson, St. (Words: 2)
- Paul's Church-Yard; Mr. (Words: 3)
- Jackson, Oxford Street; Mr. (Words: 4)
- They are also remarkably cheerful. (Words: 5)
- Davis, opposite Gray's Inn, Holborn; Messrs. (Words: 6)
- His Royal Highness the Prince of Wales. (Words: 7)
- The same tree also produces nuts and oil. (Words: 8)
- As our manners are simple, our luxuries are few. (Words: 9)
- We are almost a nation of dancers, musicians, and poets. (Words: 10)
- All our industry is exerted to improve those blessings of nature. (Words: 11)

Top 10 Longest Words:
- misrepresentations (Length: 18 characters)
- impracticability (Length: 16 characters)
- unenforceability (Length: 16 characters)
- notwithstanding (Length: 15 characters)
- characteristics (Length: 15 characters)
- Notwithstanding (Length: 15 characters)
- disappointments (Length: 15 characters)
- enfranchisement (Length: 15 characters)
- acknowledgments (Length: 15 characters)
- representations (Length: 15 characters)

Top 10 Most Common Letters:
- e (Occurrences: 47012)
- t (Occurrences: 33145)
- a (Occurrences: 29296)
- o (Occurrences: 27976)
- n (Occurrences: 25589)
- i (Occurrences: 24833)
- s (Occurrences: 22095)
- h (Occurrences: 21677)
- r (Occurrences: 21672)
- d (Occurrences: 16626)

Top 10 Most Common Words:
- the (Occurrences: 4522)
- and (Occurrences: 3436)
- to (Occurrences: 2806)
- of (Occurrences: 2725)
- i (Occurrences: 2572)
- in (Occurrences: 1628)
- a (Occurrences: 1532)
- was (Occurrences: 1295)
- my (Occurrences: 1008)
- me (Occurrences: 908)
Top 10 Longest Sentences:
- My sighs no more I could conceal.

    'To ease my mind I often strove,
    And tried my trouble to remove:
    I sung, and utter'd sighs between--
    Assay'd to stifle guilt with sin.

    'But O! not all that I could do
    Would stop the current of my woe;
    Conviction still my vileness shew'd;
    How great my guilt--how lost from God!

    'Prevented, that I could not die,
    Nor might to one kind refuge fly;
    An orphan state I had to mourn,--
    Forsook by all, and left forlorn.'

    Those who beheld my downcast mien
    Could not guess at my woes unseen:
    They by appearance could not know
    The troubles that I waded through.

    'Lust, anger, blasphemy, and pride,
    With legions of such ills beside,
    Troubled my thoughts,' while doubts and fears
    Clouded and darken'd most my years.

    'Sighs now no more would be confin'd--
    They breath'd the trouble of my mind:
    I wish'd for death, but check'd the word,
    And often pray'd unto the Lord.'

    Unhappy, more than some on earth,
    I thought the place that gave me birth--
    Strange thoughts oppress'd--while I replied
    "Why not in Ethiopia died?"

    And why thus spared, nigh to hell?--
    God only knew--I could not tell!
    'A tott'ring fence, a bowing wall
    thought myself ere since the fall.'

    'Oft times I mused, nigh despair,
    While birds melodious fill'd the air:
    Thrice happy songsters, ever free,
    How bless'd were they compar'd to me!'

    Thus all things added to my pain,
    While grief compell'd me to complain;
    When sable clouds began to rise
    My mind grew darker than the skies. (Length: 1682 characters)
- XI.

     _The author embarks on board a ship bound for Cadiz--Is near
     being shipwrecked--Goes to Malaga--Remarkable fine cathedral
     there--The author disputes with a popish priest--Picking up
     eleven miserable men at sea in returning to England--Engages
     again with Doctor Irving to accompany him to Jamaica and the
     Mosquito Shore--Meets with an Indian prince on board--The
     author attempts to instruct him in the truths of the
     Gospel--Frustrated by the bad example of some in the
     ship--They arrive on the Mosquito Shore with some slaves
     they purchased at Jamaica, and begin to cultivate a
     plantation--Some account of the manners and customs of the
     Mosquito Indians--Successful device of the author's to quell
     a riot among them--Curious entertainment given by them to
     Doctor Irving and the author, who leaves the shore and goes
     for Jamaica--Is barbarously treated by a man with whom he
     engaged for his passage--Escapes and goes to the Mosquito
     admiral, who treats him kindly--He gets another vessel and
     goes on board--Instances of bad treatment--Meets Doctor
     Irving--Gets to Jamaica--Is cheated by his captain--Leaves
     the Doctor and goes for England._


When our ship was got ready for sea again, I was entreated by the
captain to go in her once more; but, as I felt myself now as happy as
I could wish to be in this life, I for some time refused; however, the
advice of my friends at last prevailed; and, in full resignation to
the will of God, I again embarked for Cadiz in March 1775. (Length: 1607 characters)
- HUMBLY SHEWETH,

     That your Lordships' memorialist was, by the Honourable the
     Commissioners of his Majesty's Navy, on the 4th of December
     last, appointed to the above employment by warrant from that
     board;

     That he accordingly proceeded to the execution of his duty
     on board of the Vernon, being one of the ships appointed to
     proceed to Africa with the above poor;

     That your memorialist, to his great grief and astonishment,
     received a letter of dismission from the Honourable
     Commissioners of the Navy, by your Lordships' orders;

     That, conscious of having acted with the most perfect
     fidelity and the greatest assiduity in discharging the trust
     reposed in him, he is altogether at a loss to conceive the
     reasons of your Lordships' having altered the favourable
     opinion you were pleased to conceive of him, sensible that
     your Lordships would not proceed to so severe a measure
     without some apparent good cause; he therefore has every
     reason to believe that his conduct has been grossly
     misrepresented to your Lordships; and he is the more
     confirmed in his opinion, because, by opposing measures of
     others concerned in the same expedition, which tended to
     defeat your Lordships' humane intentions, and to put the
     government to a very considerable additional expense, he
     created a number of enemies, whose misrepresentations, he
     has too much reason to believe, laid the foundation of his
     dismission. (Length: 1558 characters)
- Le Clue, off
     Cape Logas, in August 1759--Dreadful explosion of a French
     ship--The author sails for England--His master appointed to
     the command of a fire-ship--Meets a negro boy, from whom he
     experiences much benevolence--Prepares for an expedition
     against Belle-Isle--A remarkable story of a disaster which
     befel his ship--Arrives at Belle-Isle--Operations of the
     landing and siege--The author's danger and distress, with
     his manner of extricating himself--- Surrender of
     Belle-Isle--Transactions afterwards on the coast of
     France--Remarkable instance of kidnapping--The author
     returns to England--Hears a talk of peace, and expects his
     freedom--His ship sails for Deptford to be paid off, and
     when he arrives there he is suddenly seized by his master
     and carried forcibly on board a West India ship and sold._


It was now between two and three years since I first came to England,
a great part of which I had spent at sea; so that I became inured to
that service, and began to consider myself as happily situated; for my
master treated me always extremely well; and my attachment and
gratitude to him were very great. (Length: 1211 characters)
- In the evening of the same day, as I was reading and meditating on the
fourth chapter of the Acts, twelfth verse, under the solemn
apprehensions of eternity, and reflecting on my past actions, I began
to think I had lived a moral life, and that I had a proper ground to
believe I had an interest in the divine favour; but still meditating
on the subject, not knowing whether salvation was to be had partly for
our own good deeds, or solely as the sovereign gift of God; in this
deep consternation the Lord was pleased to break in upon my soul with
his bright beams of heavenly light; and in an instant as it were,
removing the veil, and letting light into a dark place, I saw clearly
with the eye of faith the crucified Saviour bleeding on the cross on
mount Calvary: the scriptures became an unsealed book, I saw myself a
condemned criminal under the law, which came with its full force to my
conscience, and when 'the commandment came sin revived, and I died,' I
saw the Lord Jesus Christ in his humiliation, loaded and bearing my
reproach, sin, and shame. (Length: 1073 characters)
- King, once more embarks for
     Georgia in one of his vessels--A new captain is
     appointed--They sail, and steer a new course--Three
     remarkable dreams--The vessel is shipwrecked on the Bahama
     bank, but the crew are preserved, principally by means of
     the author--He sets out from the island with the captain, in
     a small boat, in quest of a ship--Their distress--Meet with
     a wrecker--Sail for Providence--Are overtaken again by a
     terrible storm, and are all near perishing--Arrive at New
     Providence--The author, after some time, sails from thence
     to Georgia--Meets with another storm, and is obliged to put
     back and refit--Arrives at Georgia--Meets new
     impositions--Two white men attempt to kidnap him--Officiates
     as a parson at a funeral ceremony--Bids adieu to Georgia,
     and sails for Martinico._


As I had now, by the death of my captain, lost my great benefactor and
friend, I had little inducement to remain longer in the West Indies,
except my gratitude to Mr. (Length: 1048 characters)
- Does not the
success of this practice say loudly to the planters in the language of
scripture--"Go ye and do likewise?"

In October 1785 I was accompanied by some of the Africans, and
presented this address of thanks to the gentlemen called Friends or
Quakers, in Gracechurch-Court Lombard-Street:

     Gentlemen,

     By reading your book, entitled a Caution to Great Britain
     and her Colonies, concerning the Calamitous State of the
     enslaved Negroes: We the poor, oppressed, needy, and
     much-degraded negroes, desire to approach you with this
     address of thanks, with our inmost love and warmest
     acknowledgment; and with the deepest sense of your
     benevolence, unwearied labour, and kind interposition,
     towards breaking the yoke of slavery, and to administer a
     little comfort and ease to thousands and tens of thousands
     of very grievously afflicted, and too heavy burthened
     negroes. (Length: 952 characters)
- CHAPTER I.

     _The author's account of his country, and their manners and
     customs--Administration of justice--Embrenche--Marriage
     ceremony, and public entertainments--Mode of
     living--Dress--Manufactures
     Buildings--Commerce--Agriculture--War and
     religion--Superstition of the natives--Funeral ceremonies of
     the priests or magicians--Curious mode of discovering
     poison--Some hints concerning the origin of the author's
     countrymen, with the opinions of different writers on that
     subject._


I believe it is difficult for those who publish their own memoirs to
escape the imputation of vanity; nor is this the only disadvantage
under which they labour: it is also their misfortune, that what is
uncommon is rarely, if ever, believed, and what is obvious we are apt
to turn from with disgust, and to charge the writer with impertinence. (Length: 897 characters)
- May Heaven make the British senators the
dispersers of light, liberty, and science, to the uttermost parts of
the earth: then will be glory to God on the highest, on earth peace,
and goodwill to men:--Glory, honour, peace, &c. to every soul of man
that worketh good, to the Britons first, (because to them the Gospel
is preached) and also to the nations. 'Those that honour their Maker
have mercy on the poor.' 'It is righteousness exalteth a nation; but
sin is a reproach to any people; destruction shall be to the workers
of iniquity, and the wicked shall fall by their own wickedness.' May
the blessings of the Lord be upon the heads of all those who
commiserated the cases of the oppressed negroes, and the fear of God
prolong their days; and may their expectations be filled with
gladness! 'The liberal devise liberal things, and by liberal things
shall stand,' Isaiah xxxii. 8. (Length: 896 characters)
- Anthony in the
     said island, merchant, send greeting: Know ye, that I the
     aforesaid Robert King, for and in consideration of the sum
     of seventy pounds current money of the said island, to me in
     hand paid, and to the intent that a negro man-slave, named
     Gustavus Vassa, shall and may become free, have manumitted,
     emancipated, enfranchised, and set free, and by these
     presents do manumit, emancipate, enfranchise, and set free,
     the aforesaid negro man-slave, named Gustavus Vassa, for
     ever, hereby giving, granting, and releasing unto him, the
     said Gustavus Vassa, all right, title, dominion,
     sovereignty, and property, which, as lord and master over
     the aforesaid Gustavus Vassa, I had, or now I have, or by
     any means whatsoever I may or can hereafter possibly have
     over him the aforesaid negro, for ever. (Length: 888 characters)
