Title: The Enchanted April


Top 10 Shortest Sentences:
- Nobody listened. (Words: 2)
- Necessary servants remain. (Words: 3)
- But she was poor. (Words: 4)
- So entirely unaware was Mrs. (Words: 5)
- Arbuthnot, however, did not look up. (Words: 6)
- But what nonsense to think of it . . . (Words: 7)
- And she could not help thinking that Mrs. (Words: 8)
- Steadfast as the points of the compass to Mrs. (Words: 9)
- But for the thrift which, like moth, penetrated into Mrs. (Words: 10)
- Part of her savings, of course; perhaps quite a small part. (Words: 11)

Top 10 Longest Words:
- characteristically (Length: 18 characters)
- reprehensibleness (Length: 17 characters)
- demonstrativeness (Length: 17 characters)
- indistinguishable (Length: 17 characters)
- unresponsiveness (Length: 16 characters)
- enthusiastically (Length: 16 characters)
- incomprehensibly (Length: 16 characters)
- incomprehensible (Length: 16 characters)
- misappropriation (Length: 16 characters)
- affectionateness (Length: 16 characters)

Top 10 Most Common Letters:
- e (Occurrences: 45438)
- t (Occurrences: 31685)
- a (Occurrences: 27466)
- o (Occurrences: 26544)
- n (Occurrences: 24421)
- s (Occurrences: 24352)
- h (Occurrences: 24228)
- i (Occurrences: 23403)
- r (Occurrences: 21311)
- d (Occurrences: 16833)

Top 10 Most Common Words:
- the (Occurrences: 3385)
- and (Occurrences: 2760)
- to (Occurrences: 2417)
- she (Occurrences: 2285)
- of (Occurrences: 1881)
- her (Occurrences: 1754)
- was (Occurrences: 1686)
- a (Occurrences: 1325)
- in (Occurrences: 1284)
- it (Occurrences: 1276)
Top 10 Longest Sentences:
- Title: The Enchanted April


Author: Elizabeth Von Arnim

Release date: July 29, 2005 [eBook #16389]
                Most recently updated: June 25, 2023

Language: English

Credits: Manette Rothermel


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE ENCHANTED APRIL ***



[Illustration]




The Enchanted April

by Elizabeth Von Arnim




Contents

 Chapter 1
 Chapter 2
 Chapter 3
 Chapter 4
 Chapter 5
 Chapter 6
 Chapter 7
 Chapter 8
 Chapter 9
 Chapter 10
 Chapter 11
 Chapter 12
 Chapter 13
 Chapter 14
 Chapter 15
 Chapter 16
 Chapter 17
 Chapter 18
 Chapter 19
 Chapter 20
 Chapter 21
 Chapter 22




Chapter 1


It began in a Woman’s Club in London on a February afternoon—an
uncomfortable club, and a miserable afternoon—when Mrs. (Length: 799 characters)
- It seems to me
pitiful, positively pitiful, in its silliness.”

And, her stick crunching the pebbles, she walked away.

“That’s all right,” Scrap said to herself, dropping back into her
comfortable position with her head in the cushion and her feet on the
parapet; if only people would go away she didn’t in the least mind why
they went.

“Don’t you think darling Scrap is growing a little, just a little,
peculiar?” her mother had asked her father a short time before that
latest peculiarity of the flight to San Salvatore, uncomfortably struck
by the very odd things Scrap said and the way she had taken to slinking
out of reach whenever she could and avoiding everybody except—such a
sign of age—quite young men, almost boys.

“Eh? (Length: 751 characters)
- At the sight of him Francesca flung up every bit of her that would
fling up—eyebrows, eyelids, and hands, and volubly assured him that all
was in perfect order and that she was doing her duty.

“Of course, of course,” said Briggs, cutting her short. “No one doubts
it.”

And he asked her to take in his card to her mistress.

“Which mistress?” asked Francesca.

“Which mistress?”

“There are four,” said Francesca, scenting an irregularity on the part
of the tenants, for her master looked surprised; and she felt pleased,
for life was dull and irregularities helped it along at least a little.

“Four?” he repeated surprised. “Well, take it to the lot then,” he
said, recovering himself, for he noticed her expression. (Length: 737 characters)
- In the train he had selected the words of his greeting, going over them
with care—some slight expression of his gratification in meeting one of
whom he, in common with the whole world, had heard—but of course put
delicately, very delicately; some slight reference to her distinguished
parents and the part her family had played in the history of
England—made, of course, with proper tact; a sentence or two about her
eldest brother Lord Winchcombe, who had won his V.C. in the late war
under circumstances which could only cause—he might or might not add
this—every Englishman’s heart to beat higher than ever with pride, and
the first steps towards what might well be the turning-point in his
career would have been taken. (Length: 733 characters)
- But it did matter that she could not read a sentence of any
of her great dead friends’ writings; no, not even of Browning’s, who
had been so much in Italy, nor of Ruskin’s, whose _Stones of Venice_
she had brought with her to re-read so nearly on the very spot; nor
even a sentence of a really interesting book like the one she had found
in her sitting-room about the home life of the German Emperor, poor
man—written in the nineties, when he had not yet begun to be more
sinned against than sinning, which was, she was firmly convinced, what
was the matter with him now, and full of exciting things about his
birth and his right arm and _accoucheurs_—without having to put it down
and go and stare at the sea. (Length: 720 characters)
- Fisher, “must now be the last of the husbands,
unless Lady Caroline produces one from up her sleeve.”

But she received him graciously, for he certainly looked exactly like a
husband, not at all like one of those people who go about abroad
pretending they are husbands when they are not, and said she supposed
he had come to accompany his wife home at the end of the month, and
remarked that now the house would be completely full. “So that,” she
added, smiling at Briggs, “we shall at last really be getting our
money’s worth.”

Briggs grinned automatically, because he was just able to realise that
somebody was being playful with him, but he had not heard her and he
did not look at her. (Length: 703 characters)
- The
house possessed two sitting-rooms, and she had explained to that pretty
creature Lady Caroline—certainly a pretty creature, whatever else she
was; Tennyson would have enjoyed taking her for blows on the downs—who
had seemed inclined to appropriate the honey-coloured one, that she
needed some little refuge entirely to herself because of her stick.

“Nobody wants to see an old woman hobbling about everywhere,” she had
said. “I shall be quite content to spend much of my time by myself in
here or sitting out on these convenient battlements.”

And she had a very nice bedroom, too; it looked two ways, across the
bay to the morning sun—she liked the morning sun—and onto the garden. (Length: 699 characters)
- Fisher,
being prevented, she explained, from going out to Lady Caroline herself
because of her stick, sent the two others instead, who had come in at
that moment heated and breathless and full of excuses, while she
herself proceeded to the next course, which was a very well-made
omelette, bursting most agreeably at both its ends with young green
peas.

“Serve me,” she directed Francesca, who again showed a disposition to
wait for the others.

“_Oh_, why won’t they leave me alone?—oh, why _won’t_ they leave me
alone?” Scrap asked herself when she heard more scrunchings on the
little pebbles which took the place of grass, and therefore knew some
one else was approaching. (Length: 691 characters)
- INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause. (Length: 685 characters)
- Everything going splendidly
here.—Yours,
                                                         Frederick.

—no, it couldn’t be borne.

“I don’t think I’ll come down to the village with you to-day,” she
said, looking up at Lotty with eyes suddenly gone dim. “I think I want
to think.”

“All right,” said Lotty, at once starting off briskly down the path.
“But don’t think too long,” she called back over her shoulder. “Write
and invite him at once.”

“Invite whom?” asked Rose, startled.

“Your husband.”




Chapter 12


At the evening meal, which was the first time the whole four sat round
the dining-room table together, Scrap appeared. (Length: 667 characters)
