Title: The Adventures of Tom Sawyer, Complete


Top 10 Shortest Sentences:
- THE AUTHOR. (Words: 2)
- Springing a Secret—Mr. (Words: 3)
- An Attempt at No. (Words: 4)
- And look at your mouth. (Words: 5)
- Tom struck them to the ground. (Words: 6)
- I might ’a’ thought of that closet. (Words: 7)
- Dat’s a mighty gay marvel, I tell you! (Words: 8)
- Tom went on whitewashing—paid no attention to the steamboat. (Words: 9)
- He took up his brush and went tranquilly to work. (Words: 10)
- Her spectacles were propped up on her gray head for safety. (Words: 11)

Top 10 Longest Words:
- foretopmaststuns (Length: 16 characters)
- absentmindedness (Length: 16 characters)
- unenforceability (Length: 16 characters)
- characteristics (Length: 15 characters)
- conspicuousness (Length: 15 characters)
- distinguishable (Length: 15 characters)
- notwithstanding (Length: 15 characters)
- dissatisfaction (Length: 15 characters)
- dessertspoonful (Length: 15 characters)
- representations (Length: 15 characters)

Top 10 Most Common Letters:
- e (Occurrences: 38099)
- t (Occurrences: 30867)
- o (Occurrences: 24964)
- a (Occurrences: 24860)
- n (Occurrences: 21501)
- h (Occurrences: 20366)
- i (Occurrences: 20250)
- s (Occurrences: 18815)
- r (Occurrences: 16767)
- d (Occurrences: 15555)

Top 10 Most Common Words:
- the (Occurrences: 3984)
- and (Occurrences: 3191)
- a (Occurrences: 1955)
- to (Occurrences: 1808)
- of (Occurrences: 1589)
- it (Occurrences: 1332)
- he (Occurrences: 1252)
- was (Occurrences: 1168)
- that (Occurrences: 1041)
- in (Occurrences: 1015)
Top 10 Longest Sentences:
- Cat and Toys

Amusement

Becky Thatcher

Paying Off

After the Battle

“Showing Off”

Not Amiss

Mary

Tom Contemplating

Dampened Ardor

Youth

Boyhood

Using the “Barlow”

The Church

Necessities

Tom as a Sunday-School Hero

The Prize

At Church

The Model Boy

The Church Choir

A Side Show

Result of Playing in Church

The Pinch-Bug

Sid

Dentistry

Huckleberry Finn

Mother Hopkins

Result of Tom’s Truthfulness

Tom as an Artist

Interrupted Courtship

The Master

Vain Pleading

Tail Piece

The Grave in the Woods

Tom Meditates

Robin Hood and his Foe

Death of Robin Hood

Midnight

Tom’s Mode of Egress

Tom’s Effort at Prayer

Muff Potter Outwitted

The Graveyard

Forewarnings

Disturbing Muff’s Sleep

Tom’s Talk with his Aunt

Muff Potter

A Suspicious Incident

Injun Joe’s two Victims

In the Coils

Peter

Aunt Polly seeks Information

A General Good Time

Demoralized

Joe Harper

On Board Their First Prize

The Pirates Ashore

Wild Life

The Pirate’s Bath

The Pleasant Stroll

The Search for the Drowned

The Mysterious Writing

River View

What Tom Saw

Tom Swims the River

Taking Lessons

The Pirates’ Egg Market

Tom Looking for Joe’s Knife

The Thunder Storm

Terrible Slaughter

The Mourner

Tom’s Proudest Moment

Amy Lawrence

Tom tries to Remember

The Hero

A Flirtation

Becky Retaliates

A Sudden Frost

Counter-irritation

Aunt Polly

Tom justified

The Discovery

Caught in the Act

Tom Astonishes the School

Literature

Tom Declaims

Examination Evening

On Exhibition

Prize Authors

The Master’s Dilemma

The School House

The Cadet

Happy for Two Days

Enjoying the Vacation

The Stolen Melons

The Judge

Visiting the Prisoner

Tom Swears

The Court Room

The Detective

Tom Dreams

The Treasure

The Private Conference

A King; Poor Fellow! (Length: 1988 characters)
- Business

The Ha’nted House

Injun Joe

The Greatest and Best

Hidden Treasures Unearthed

The Boy’s Salvation

Room No. 2

The Next Day’s Conference

Treasures

Uncle Jake

Buck at Home

The Haunted Room

“Run for Your Life”

McDougal’s Cave

Inside the Cave

Huck on Duty

A Rousing Act

Tail Piece

The Welshman

Result of a Sneeze

Cornered

Alarming Discoveries

Tom and Becky stir up the Town

Tom’s Marks

Huck Questions the Widow

Vampires

Wonders of the Cave

Attacked by Natives

Despair

The Wedding Cake

A New Terror

Daylight

“Turn Out” to Receive Tom and Becky

The Escape from the Cave

Fate of the Ragged Man

The Treasures Found

Caught at Last

Drop after Drop

Having a Good Time

A Business Trip

“Got it at Last!”

Tail Piece

Widow Douglas

Tom Backs his Statement

Tail Piece

Huck Transformed

Comfortable Once More

High up in Society

Contentment




PREFACE


Most of the adventures recorded in this book really occurred; one or two
were experiences of my own, the rest those of boys who were schoolmates
of mine. (Length: 1149 characters)
- Then quite a group of boys and girls—playmates of Tom’s
and Joe’s—came by, and stood looking over the paling fence and talking
in reverent tones of how Tom did so-and-so the last time they saw
him, and how Joe said this and that small trifle (pregnant with awful
prophecy, as they could easily see now!)—and each speaker pointed out
the exact spot where the lost lads stood at the time, and then added
something like “and I was a-standing just so—just as I am now, and as if
you was him—I was as close as that—and he smiled, just this way—and then
something seemed to go all over me, like—awful, you know—and I never
thought what it meant, of course, but I can see now!”

Then there was a dispute about who saw the dead boys last in life, and
many claimed that dismal distinction, and offered evidences, more or
less tampered with by the witness; and when it was ultimately decided
who _did_ see the departed last, and exchanged the last words with them,
the lucky parties took upon themselves a sort of sacred importance,
and were gaped at and envied by all the rest. (Length: 1084 characters)
- A good, generous prayer it was, and went
into details: it pleaded for the church, and the little children of the
church; for the other churches of the village; for the village itself;
for the county; for the State; for the State officers; for the United
States; for the churches of the United States; for Congress; for the
President; for the officers of the Government; for poor sailors, tossed
by stormy seas; for the oppressed millions groaning under the heel of
European monarchies and Oriental despotisms; for such as have the light
and the good tidings, and yet have not eyes to see nor ears to hear
withal; for the heathen in the far islands of the sea; and closed with
a supplication that the words he was about to speak might find grace
and favor, and be as seed sown in fertile ground, yielding in time a
grateful harvest of good. (Length: 851 characters)
- If you could come over
on a log to go to your funeral, you could have come over and give me a
hint some way that you warn’t dead, but only run off.”

“Yes, you could have done that, Tom,” said Mary; “and I believe you
would if you had thought of it.”

“Would you, Tom?” said Aunt Polly, her face lighting wistfully. “Say,
now, would you, if you’d thought of it?”

“I—well, I don’t know. ’Twould ’a’ spoiled everything.”

“Tom, I hoped you loved me that much,” said Aunt Polly, with a grieved
tone that discomforted the boy. “It would have been something if you’d
cared enough to _think_ of it, even if you didn’t _do_ it.”

“Now, auntie, that ain’t any harm,” pleaded Mary; “it’s only Tom’s giddy
way—he is always in such a rush that he never thinks of anything.”

“More’s the pity. (Length: 801 characters)
- He once
recited three thousand verses without stopping; but the strain upon his
mental faculties was too great, and he was little better than an idiot
from that day forth—a grievous misfortune for the school, for on great
occasions, before company, the superintendent (as Tom expressed it)
had always made this boy come out and “spread himself.” Only the older
pupils managed to keep their tickets and stick to their tedious work
long enough to get a Bible, and so the delivery of one of these prizes
was a rare and noteworthy circumstance; the successful pupil was so
great and conspicuous for that day that on the spot every scholar’s
heart was fired with a fresh ambition that often lasted a couple
of weeks. (Length: 722 characters)
- If it hadn’t
ben for me he’d be down in Texas now, all right.”

Then Huck told his entire adventure in confidence to Tom, who had only
heard of the Welshman’s part of it before.

“Well,” said Huck, presently, coming back to the main question, “whoever
nipped the whiskey in No. 2, nipped the money, too, I reckon—anyways
it’s a goner for us, Tom.”

“Huck, that money wasn’t ever in No. 2!”

“What!” Huck searched his comrade’s face keenly. “Tom, have you got on
the track of that money again?”

“Huck, it’s in the cave!”

Huck’s eyes blazed.

“Say it again, Tom.”

“The money’s in the cave!”

“Tom—honest injun, now—is it fun, or earnest?”

“Earnest, Huck—just as earnest as ever I was in my life. (Length: 722 characters)
- Potter took out a large
spring-knife and cut off the dangling end of the rope and then said:

“Now the cussed thing’s ready, Sawbones, and you’ll just out with
another five, or here she stays.”

“That’s the talk!” said Injun Joe.

“Look here, what does this mean?” said the doctor. “You required your
pay in advance, and I’ve paid you.”

“Yes, and you done more than that,” said Injun Joe, approaching the
doctor, who was now standing. “Five years ago you drove me away from
your father’s kitchen one night, when I come to ask for something to
eat, and you said I warn’t there for any good; and when I swore I’d get
even with you if it took a hundred years, your father had me jailed for
a vagrant. (Length: 714 characters)
- A little green worm came
crawling over a dewy leaf, lifting two-thirds of his body into the air
from time to time and “sniffing around,” then proceeding again—for he
was measuring, Tom said; and when the worm approached him, of its own
accord, he sat as still as a stone, with his hopes rising and falling,
by turns, as the creature still came toward him or seemed inclined to
go elsewhere; and when at last it considered a painful moment with its
curved body in the air and then came decisively down upon Tom’s leg and
began a journey over him, his whole heart was glad—for that meant that
he was going to have a new suit of clothes—without the shadow of a
doubt a gaudy piratical uniform. (Length: 700 characters)
- This superintendent was a slim
creature of thirty-five, with a sandy goatee and short sandy hair; he
wore a stiff standing-collar whose upper edge almost reached his ears
and whose sharp points curved forward abreast the corners of his mouth—a
fence that compelled a straight lookout ahead, and a turning of the
whole body when a side view was required; his chin was propped on a
spreading cravat which was as broad and as long as a bank-note, and had
fringed ends; his boot toes were turned sharply up, in the fashion
of the day, like sleigh-runners—an effect patiently and laboriously
produced by the young men by sitting with their toes pressed against a
wall for hours together. (Length: 692 characters)
