Title: The Kama Sutra of Vatsyayana


Top 10 Shortest Sentences:
- Waters, 1826. (Words: 2)
- It happened thus. (Words: 3)
- TRANSLATED FROM THE SANSCRIT. (Words: 4)
- Going out on moonlight nights. (Words: 5)
- SALUTATION TO DHARMA, ARTHA AND KAMA. (Words: 6)
- The Udakakashvedika or sporting in the water. (Words: 7)
- Such, then, is the Padmini or Lotus woman. (Words: 8)
- A complete translation of the original work now follows. (Words: 9)
- Aupamishadika (on the arts of seduction, tonic medicines, etc.). (Words: 10)
- The contents of these works are in themselves a literary curiosity. (Words: 11)

Top 10 Longest Words:
- _Vrikshadhirudhaka_ (Length: 19 characters)
- indiscriminately (Length: 16 characters)
- incomprehensible (Length: 16 characters)
- _Jataveshtitaka_ (Length: 16 characters)
- acquaintanceship (Length: 16 characters)
- unenforceability (Length: 16 characters)
- characteristics (Length: 15 characters)
- philanthropists (Length: 15 characters)
- Bharyadhikarika (Length: 15 characters)
- Characteristics (Length: 15 characters)

Top 10 Most Common Letters:
- e (Occurrences: 34023)
- t (Occurrences: 23397)
- a (Occurrences: 22053)
- o (Occurrences: 22022)
- n (Occurrences: 19956)
- s (Occurrences: 18796)
- i (Occurrences: 18335)
- h (Occurrences: 17987)
- r (Occurrences: 15941)
- d (Occurrences: 10267)

Top 10 Most Common Words:
- the (Occurrences: 4681)
- of (Occurrences: 3085)
- and (Occurrences: 2293)
- to (Occurrences: 1642)
- a (Occurrences: 1534)
- her (Occurrences: 1081)
- in (Occurrences: 1040)
- is (Occurrences: 1022)
- should (Occurrences: 813)
- with (Occurrences: 764)
Top 10 Longest Sentences:
- She is, moreover, to do the following things
for the purpose of gaining the man's favour, viz.:

Sending her female attendant to bring the flowers used by him on the
previous day, in order that she may use them herself as a mark of
affection, also asking for the mixture of betel nut and leaves that have
remained uneaten by him; expressing wonder at his knowledge of sexual
intercourse, and the several means of enjoyment used by him; learning
from him the sixty-four kinds of pleasure mentioned by Babhravya;
continually practising the ways of enjoyment as taught by him, and
according to his liking; keeping his secrets; telling him her own
desires and secrets; concealing her anger; never neglecting him on the
bed when he turns his face towards her; touching any parts of his body
according to his wish; kissing and embracing him when he is asleep;
looking at him with apparent anxiety when he is wrapt in thought, or
thinking of some other subject than herself; showing neither complete
shamelessness, nor excessive bashfulness when he meets her, or sees her
standing on the terrace of her house from the public road; hating his
enemies; loving those who are dear to him; showing a liking for that
which he likes; being in high or low spirits according to the state that
he is in himself; expressing a curiosity to see his wives; not
continuing her anger for a long time; suspecting even the marks and
wounds made by herself with her nails and teeth on his body to have been
made by some other woman; keeping her love for him unexpressed by words,
but showing it by deeds, and signs, and hints; remaining silent when he
is asleep, intoxicated, or sick; being very attentive when he describes
his good actions, and reciting them afterwards to his praise and
benefit; giving witty replies to him if he be sufficiently attached to
her; listening to all his stories, except those that relate to her
rivals; expressing feelings of dejection and sorrow if he sighs, yawns,
or falls down; pronouncing the words "live long" when he sneezes;
pretending to be ill, or to have the desire of pregnancy, when she feels
dejected; abstaining from praising the good qualities of any body else,
and from censuring those who possess the same faults as her own man:
wearing anything that may have been given to her by him; abstaining from
putting on her ornaments, and from taking food when he is in pain, sick,
low-spirited, or suffering from misfortune, and condoling and lamenting
with him over the same; wishing to accompany him if he happens to leave
the country himself or if he be banished from it by the King; expressing
a desire not to live after him; telling him that the whole object and
desire of her life was to be united with him; offering previously
promised sacrifices to the Deity when he acquires wealth, or has some
desire fulfilled, or when he has recovered from some illness or disease;
putting on ornaments every day; not acting too freely with him; reciting
his name and the name of his family in her songs; placing his hand on
her loins, bosom and forehead, and falling asleep after feeling the
pleasure of his touch; sitting on his lap and falling asleep there;
wishing to have a child by him; desiring not to live longer than he
does; abstaining from revealing his secrets to others; dissuading him
from vows and fasts by saying "let the sin fall upon me;" keeping vows
and fasts along with him when it is impossible to change his mind on the
subject; telling him that vows and fasts are difficult to be observed,
even by herself, when she has any dispute with him about them; looking
on her own wealth and his without any distinction; abstaining from going
to public assemblies without him, and accompanying him when he desires
her to do so; taking delight in using things previously used by him, and
in eating food that he has left uneaten; venerating his family, his
disposition, his skill in the arts, his learning, his caste, his
complexion, his native country, his friends, his good qualities, his
age, and his sweet temper; asking him to sing, and to do other such like
things, if able to do them; going to him without paying any regard to
fear, to cold, to heat, or to rain; saying with regard to the next world
that he should be her lover even there; adapting her tastes, disposition
and actions to his liking; abstaining from sorcery; disputing
continually with her mother on the subject of going to him, and, when
forcibly taken by her mother to some other place, expressing her desire
to die by taking poison, by starving herself to death, by stabbing
herself with some weapon, or by hanging herself; and lastly assuring the
man of her constancy and love by means of her agents, and receiving
money herself, but abstaining from any dispute with her mother with
regard to pecuniary matters. (Length: 4884 characters)
- Now a girl always shows her love by outward signs and actions, such as
the following:--She never looks the man in the face, and becomes abashed
when she is looked at by him; under some pretext or other she shows her
limbs to him; she looks secretly at him though he has gone away from her
side; hangs down her head when she is asked some question by him, and
answers in indistinct words and unfinished sentences, delights to be in
his company for a long time, speaks to her attendants in a peculiar tone
with the hope of attracting his attention towards her when she is at a
distance from him, does not wish to go from the place where he is, under
some pretext or other she makes him look at different things, narrates
to him tales and stories very slowly so that she may continue conversing
with him for a long time, kisses and embraces before him a child sitting
in her lap, draws ornamental marks on the foreheads of her female
servants, performs sportive and graceful movements when her attendants
speak jestingly to her in the presence of her lover, confides in her
lover's friends, and respects and obeys them, shows kindness to his
servants, converses with them, and engages them to do her work as if she
were their mistress, and listens attentively to them when they tell
stories about her lover to somebody else, enters his house when induced
to do so by the daughter of her nurse, and by her assistance manages to
converse and play with him, avoids being seen by her lover when she is
not dressed and decorated, gives him by the hand of her female friend
her ear ornament, ring, or garland of flowers that he may have asked to
see, always wears anything that he may have presented to her, become
dejected when any other bridegroom is mentioned by her parents, and does
not mix with those who may be of her party, or who may support his
claims. (Length: 1879 characters)
- There are thus three equal unions between persons of corresponding
dimensions, and there are six unequal unions, when the dimensions do not
correspond, or nine in all, as the following table shows:

   +--------------------+--------------------+
   |      EQUAL.        |      UNEQUAL.      |
   +--------------------+--------------------+
   |  MEN.  |   WOMEN.  |  MEN.  | WOMEN.    |
   +--------+-----------+--------|-----------+
   |        |           |        |           |
   | Hare.  | Deer.     | Hare.  | Mare.     |
   | Bull.  | Mare.     | Hare.  | Elephant. |
   | Horse. | Elephant. | Bull.  | Deer.     |
   |        |           | Bull.  | Elephant. |
   |        |           | Horse. | Deer.     |
   |        |           | Horse. | Mare.     |
   +--------+-----------+--------+-----------+

In these unequal unions, when the male exceeds the female in point of
size, his union with a woman who is immediately next to him in size is
called high union, and is of two kinds; while his union with the woman
most remote from him in size is called the highest union, and is of one
kind only. (Length: 1127 characters)
- It is not meant only for a dweller in a city, like the
Latin Urbanus as opposed to Rusticus.]

[Footnote 14: Gift is peculiar to a Brahman, conquest to a Kshatrya,
while purchase, deposit, and other means of acquiring wealth belongs to
the Vaishya.]

[Footnote 15: Natural garden flowers.]

[Footnote 16: Such as quails, partridges, parrots, starlings, &c.]

[Footnote 17: The calls of nature always performed by the Hindoos the
first thing in the morning.]

[Footnote 18: A colour made from lac.]

[Footnote 19: This would act instead of soap, which was not introduced
until the rule of the Mahomedans.]

[Footnote 20: Ten days are allowed when the hair is taken out with a pair
of pincers.]

[Footnote 21: These are characters generally introduced in the Hindoo
drama; their characteristics will be explained further on.]

[Footnote 22: Noonday sleep is only allowed in summer, when the nights
are short.]

[Footnote 23: These are very common in all parts of India.]

[Footnote 24: In the 'Asiatic Miscellany,' and in Sir W. (Length: 1056 characters)
- After
this the man should get the girl brought by means of her brother to some
secure place, and having brought fire from the house of a Brahman,
should proceed as before.

(4.) The man should on the occasion of festivals get the daughter of the
nurse to give the girl some intoxicating substance, and then cause her
to be brought to some secure place under the pretence of some business,
and there having enjoyed her before she recovers from her intoxication,
should bring fire from the house of a Brahman, and proceed as before.

(5.) The man should, with the connivance of the daughter of the nurse,
carry off the girl from her house while she is asleep, and then, having
enjoyed her before she recovers from her sleep, should bring fire from
the house of a Brahman, and proceed as before.

(6.) When the girl goes to a garden, or to some village in the
neighbourhood, the man should, with his friends, fall on her guards, and
having killed them, or frightened them away, forcibly carry her off, and
proceed as before. (Length: 1040 characters)
- When a person kisses the reflection of the person he loves in a mirror,
in water, or on a wall, it is called a "kiss showing the intention."

When a person kisses a child sitting on his lap, or a picture, or an
image, or figure, in the presence of the person beloved by him, it is
called a "transferred kiss."

When at night at a theatre, or in an assembly of caste men, a man coming
up to a woman kisses a finger of her hand if she be standing, or a toe
of her foot if she be sitting, or when a woman is shampooing her lover's
body, places her face on his thigh (as if she was sleepy) so as to
inflame his passion, and kisses his thigh or great toe, it is called a
"demonstrative kiss."

There is also a verse on the subject as follows:--

"Whatever things may be done by one of the lovers to the other, the same
should be returned by the other, _i.e._, if the woman kisses him he should
kiss her in return, if she strikes him he should also strike her in
return."




CHAPTER IV. (Length: 1005 characters)
- On a fitting occasion, and under some excuse, he should by means of
a female friend with whom he is well acquainted, and whom he can trust,
and who also is well known to the girl's family, get the girl brought
unexpectedly to his house, and he should then bring fire from the house
of a Brahman, and proceed as before described.

(2.) When the marriage of the girl with some other person draws near,
the man should disparage the future husband to the utmost in the mind of
the mother of the girl, and then having got the girl to come with her
mother's consent to a neighbouring house, he should bring fire from the
house of a Brahman, and proceed as above.

(3.) The man should become a great friend of the brother of the girl,
the said brother being of the same age as himself, and addicted to
courtesans, and to intrigues with the wives of other people, and should
give him assistance in such matters, and also give him occasional
presents. (Length: 958 characters)
- There are also nine kinds of union according to the force of passion or
carnal desire, as follows:

   +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
   |    MEN.   |   WOMEN.  |    MEN.   |   WOMEN.  |
   +-----------+-----------+-----------|-----------+
   |           |           |           |           |
   | Small.    | Small.    | Small.    | Middling. |
   | Middling. | Middling. | Small.    | Intense.  |
   | Intense.  | Intense.  | Middling. | Small.    |
   |           |           | Middling. | Intense.  |
   |           |           | Intense.  | Small.    |
   |           |           | Intense.  | Middling. |
   +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+

A man is called a man of small passion whose desire at the time of
sexual union is not great, whose semen is scanty, and who cannot bear
the warm embraces of the female. (Length: 870 characters)
- This book, which is
intended for the good of the people, and to teach them the ways of
guarding their own wives, should not be made use of merely for gaining
over the wives of others."

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 71: The way to make oneself invisible; the knowledge of the
art of transmigration, or changing ourselves or others into any shape or
form by the use of charms and spells; the power of being in two places
at once, and other occult sciences are frequently referred to in all
Oriental literature.]

[Footnote 72: This may be considered as meaning religious influence, and
alludes to persons who may be gained over by that means.]

[Footnote 73: It may be noted from the above remarks that eunuchs do not
appear to have been employed in the King's harem in those days, though
they seem to have been employed for other purposes. (Length: 849 characters)
- Such men are as follows:

Men of high birth, learned, with a good knowledge of the world, and
doing the proper things at the proper times, poets, good story tellers,
eloquent men, energetic men, skilled in various arts, far-seeing into
the future, possessed of great minds, full of perseverance, of a firm
devotion, free from anger, liberal, affectionate to their parents, and
with a liking for all social gatherings, skilled in completing verses
begun by others and in various other sports, free from all disease,
possessed of a perfect body, strong, and not addicted to drinking,
powerful in sexual enjoyment, sociable, showing love towards women and
attracting their hearts to himself, but not entirely devoted to them,
possessed of independent means of livelihood, free from envy, and last
of all free from suspicion. (Length: 834 characters)
