Title: The Adventures of Roderick Random


Top 10 Shortest Sentences:
- CHAPTER II. (Words: 2)
- Potion, and me. (Words: 3)
- This said, he retired. (Words: 4)
- What do you say, Isaac? (Words: 5)
- There’s your Douglasses, Gordons, Campbells, Hamiltons. (Words: 6)
- I’ll show him the foretopsail, I will. (Words: 7)
- I suppose you don’t know me—mayhap you don’t. (Words: 8)
- Let me alone for that—leave the whole to me. (Words: 9)
- I then asked, if he could recommend us a lodging. (Words: 10)
- You may send your things to my house when you please. (Words: 11)

Top 10 Longest Words:
- transubstantiation (Length: 18 characters)
- disinterestedness (Length: 17 characters)
- unreasonableness (Length: 16 characters)
- misunderstanding (Length: 16 characters)
- unenforceability (Length: 16 characters)
- notwithstanding (Length: 15 characters)
- contemplayshins (Length: 15 characters)
- acknowledgments (Length: 15 characters)
- Notwithstanding (Length: 15 characters)
- disappointments (Length: 15 characters)

Top 10 Most Common Letters:
- e (Occurrences: 107082)
- t (Occurrences: 75251)
- a (Occurrences: 68292)
- o (Occurrences: 66805)
- i (Occurrences: 62787)
- n (Occurrences: 61109)
- h (Occurrences: 53096)
- s (Occurrences: 51796)
- r (Occurrences: 50669)
- d (Occurrences: 40613)

Top 10 Most Common Words:
- the (Occurrences: 9479)
- of (Occurrences: 6656)
- to (Occurrences: 6294)
- and (Occurrences: 6141)
- i (Occurrences: 5110)
- a (Occurrences: 4621)
- my (Occurrences: 3723)
- in (Occurrences: 3584)
- he (Occurrences: 2881)
- with (Occurrences: 2740)
Top 10 Longest Sentences:
- In this situation he continued two years, during
which time he had acquired some knowledge of their language, and the
reputation of a good seaman; the ship he belonged to was ordered home
to France, where she was laid up as unfit for service, and he was
received on board one of Monsieur D’Antin’s squadron, in quality of
quartermaster; which office he performed in a voyage to the West
Indies, where he engaged with our ship, as before related; but his
conscience upbraiding him for serving the one enemies of his country,
he quitted the ship at the same place where he first listed, and got to
Curacoa in a Dutch vessel; there he bargained with a skipper, bound to
Europe, to work for his passage to Holland, from whence he was in hopes
of hearing from his friends in England; but was cast away, as he
mentioned before, on the French coast, and must have been reduced to
the necessity of travelling on foot to Holland, and begging for his
subsistence on the road, or of entering on board of another French
man-of-war, at the hazard of being treated as a deserter, if Providence
had not sent me to his succour. “And now, my lad,” continued he, “I
think I shall steer my course directly to London, where I do not doubt
of being replaced, and of having the R taken off me by the Lords of the
Admiralty, to whom I intend to write a petition, setting forth my case;
if I succeed, I shall have wherewithal to give you some assistance,
because, when I left the ship, I had two years’ pay due to me,
therefore I desire to know whither you are bound: and besides, perhaps,
I may have interest enough to procure a warrant appointing you
surgeon’s mate of the ship to which I shall belong—for the beadle of
the Admiralty is my good friend: and he and one of the under clerks are
sworn brothers, and that under clerk has a good deal to say with one of
the upper clerks, who is very well known to the under secretary, who,
upon his recommendation, I hope, will recommend my affair to the first
secretary; and he again will speak to one of the lords in my behalf; so
that you see I do not want friends to assist me on occasion. (Length: 2145 characters)
- We then inquired of the doctor, what progress he had made in the
experiment of distilling tinder-water; and he told us he had been at
all the glass-houses about town, but could find nobody who would
undertake to blow a retort large enough to hold the third part of the
quantity prescribed; but he intended to try the process on as much as
would produce five drops, which would be sufficient to prove the
specific, and then he would make it a parliamentary affair; that he had
already purchased a considerable weight of rags, in reducing which to
tinder, he had met with a misfortune, which had obliged him to change
his lodgings; for he had gathered them in a heap on the floor, and set
fire to them with a candle, on the supposition that the boards would
sustain no damage, because it is the nature of flame to ascend; but, by
some very extraordinary accident, the wood was invaded, and began to
blaze with great violence, which disordered him so much, that he had
not the presence of mind enough to call for assistance, and the whole
house must have been consumed with him in the midst of it, had not the
smoke that rolled out of the windows in clouds alarmed the
neighbourhood, and brought people to his succour: that he had lost a
pair of black velvet breeches and a tie-wig in the hurry, besides the
expense of the rags, which were rendered useless by the water used to
quench the flame, and the damage of the floor, which he was compelled
to repair; that his landlord, believing him distracted, had insisted on
his quitting his apartment at a minute’s warning, and he was put to
incredible inconvenience; but now he was settled in a very comfortable
house, and had the use of a large paved yard for preparing his tinder;
so that he hoped in a very short time to reap the fruits of his labour. (Length: 1823 characters)
- After dinner, I desired in my turn to know the particulars of his
peregrination, and he satisfied me in a few words, by giving me to
understand that he had lived a year at Paris with his master, who, in
that time having acquired the language, as well as the fashionable
exercises to perfection, made a tour of France and Holland, during
which excursion he was so unfortunate as to meet with three of his own
countrymen on their travels, in whose company he committed such
excesses, that his constitution failed, and he fell into a consumption;
that by the advice of physicians, he went to Montpelier for the benefit
of good air, and recovered so well in six weeks, that he returned to
Rheims seemingly in good health, where he had not continued above a
month, when he was seized with a looseness that carried him off in ten
days, to the unspeakable sorrow of all who knew him and especially of
Strap, who had been very happy in his service, and given such
satisfaction, that his master, on his death-bed recommended him to
several persons of distinction for his diligence, sobriety, and
affection, and left him by will his wearing apparel, gold watch, sword,
rings, ready money, and all the moveables he had in France, to the
value of three hundred pounds “which I now,” said he, “in the sight of
God and man, surrender to your absolute disposal: here are my keys;
take them, I beseech you, and God give you joy of the possession.” My
brain was almost turned by this sudden change of fortune, which I could
scarce believe real: however, I positively refused this extravagant
proffer of my friend, and put him in mind of my being a soldier; at
which hint he started, crying, “Odso! that’s true! we must procure your
discharge. (Length: 1750 characters)
- Here, as we wandered along gaping about, a very decent sort of a man,
passing by me, stopped of a sudden and took up something, which having
examined, he turned and presented to me with these words: “Sir, you
have dropped half-a-crown.” I was not a little surprised at this
instance of honesty, and told him it did not belong to me; but he bade
me recollect, and see if all my money was safe; upon which I pulled out
my purse, for I had bought one since I came to town, and, reckoning my
money in my hand, which was now reduced to five guineas seven shillings
and twopence, assured him I had lost nothing. “Well, then, says he, so
much the better; this is a godsend, and as you two were present when I
picked it up, you are entitled to equal shares with me.” I was
astonished at these words, and looked upon this person to be a prodigy
of integrity, but absolutely refused to take any part of the sum.
“Come, gentlemen,” said he, “you are too modest—I see you are
strangers, but you shall give me leave to treat you with a whet this
cold raw morning.” I would have declined the invitation, but Strap
whispered to me that the gentleman would be affronted, and I complied.
“Where shall we go?” said the stranger; “I am quite ignorant of this
part of the town.” I informed him that we were in the same situation;
upon which he proposed to go into the first public-house we should find
open; and as we walked together, he began in this manner: “I find by
your tongues you are from Scotland, gentlemen; my grandmother by the
father’s side was of your country, and I am so prepossessed in its
favour, that I never meet a Scotchman but my heart warms. (Length: 1667 characters)
- This task he acquitted himself of, after I had drunk a glass of
punch, and recollected my spirits, by informing us, that with a
determination to rid himself of a miserable existence, he had gone in
the night-time to the head, while the ship was on her way, from whence
he slipped down as softly as he could, by the bows into the sea, where,
after he was heartily ducked, he began to repent of his precipitation;
and, as he could swim very well, kept himself above water, in hopes of
being taken up by some of the ships astern; that, in this situation, he
hailed a large vessel, and begged to be taken in, but was answered that
she was a heavy sailer, and therefore they did not choose to lose time
by bringing to; however, they threw an old chest overboard for his
convenience, and told him, that some of the ships astern would
certainly save him; that no other vessel came within sight or cry of
him for the space of three hours, during which time he had the
mortification to find himself in the middle of the ocean alone, without
other support or resting-place, but what a few crazy boards afforded;
till at last he discerned a small sloop steering towards him, upon
which he set up his throat, and had the good fortune to be heard and
rescued from the dreary waste by their boat, which was hoisted out on
purpose.

“I was no sooner brought on board,” continued he, “than I fainted, and,
when I recovered my senses, found myself in bed, regaled with a most
noisome smell of onions and cheese, which made me think at first that I
was in my own hammock, alongside of honest Morgan, and that all which
had passed was no more than a dream. (Length: 1662 characters)
- Brayer, so that when I claimed performance of articles, I was
told he could do nothing without the consent of his partner, who was
pre-engaged to another author.

“My condition was rendered desperate by the death of my good friend and
landlord, whose executors obtained a judgment against my effects, which
they seized, turned me out into the streets naked, friendless, and
forlorn: there I was arrested at the suit of my tailor, and thrown into
the prison, where I have made shift to live these five weeks on the
bounty of my fellow prisoners, who, I hope, are not the worse for the
instruction and good offices by which I manifest my gratitude; but in
spite of all their charitable endeavours, my life was scarce tolerable,
until your uncommon benevolence enabled me to enjoy it with comfort.”




CHAPTER LXIV


I am seized with a deep Melancholy, and become a Sloven—am relieved by
my Uncle—he prevails upon me to engage with his Owners, as a Surgeon of
the Ship which he commands—he makes me a considerable Present—entertain
Strap as his steward—I take leave of my Friends, and go on Board—the
Ship arrives in the Downs


I shall not make any reflection on this story, in the course of which
the reader must perceive how egregiously the simplicity and milky
disposition of this worthy man had been duped and abused by a set of
scoundrels, who were so habituated to falsehood and equivocation, that
I verily believed they would have found the utmost difficulty in
uttering one syllable of truth, though their lives had depended upon
their sincerity. (Length: 1586 characters)
- At
length, however, I knocked, and no sooner certified the good
gentlewoman of my voice than she opened the door, and received me with
the most affectionate embrace, that brought tears into her aged eyes:
“For heaven’s sake, dear mother,” cried I, “tell me how is Narcissa? is
she the same that I left her?” She blessed my ears with saying, “She is
as beautiful, in as good health, and as much yours as ever.”
Transported at this assurance, I begged to know if I could not see her
that very night, when this sage matron gave me to understand that my
mistress was in London, and that things were strangely altered in the
squire’s house since my departure; that he had been married a whole
year to Melinda, who at first found means to wean his attention so much
from Narcissa, that he became quite careless of that lovely sister,
comforting himself with the clause in his father’s will, by which she
should forfeit her fortune, by marrying without his consent: that my
mistress, being but indifferently treated by her sister-in-law, had
made use of her freedom some months ago, and gone to town, where she
was lodged with Miss Williams, in expectation of my arrival; and had
been pestered with the addresses of Lord Quiverwit, who, finding her
heart engaged, had fallen upon a great many shifts to persuade her that
I was dead; but, finding all his artifices unsuccessful, and despairing
of gaining her affection, he had consoled himself for her indifference,
by marrying another lady some weeks ago, who had already left him on
account of some family uneasiness. (Length: 1584 characters)
- Miss Snapper ascribed it to the true cause,
namely ignorance; and, when he asked her how she relished his music,
answered that, in her opinion, the music and the words were much of a
piece. “Oh, d—n my blood!” said he “I take that as a high compliment;
for everybody allows the words are d—able fine.” “They may be so,”
replied the lady, “for aught I know, but they are above my
comprehension.” “I an’t obliged to find you comprehension, madam, curse
me!” cried he. “No, nor to speak sense neither,” said she. “D—n my
heart,” said he, “I’ll speak what I please.” Here the lawyer
interposed, by telling him, there were some things he must not speak;
and upon being defied to give an instance, mentioned treason and
defamation. “As for the king,” cried the soldier, “God bless him—I eat
his bread, and have lost blood in his cause, therefore I have nothing
to say to him—but, by G—d, I dare say anything to any other man.” “No,”
said the lawyer, “you dare not call me rogue.” “D—me, for what?” said
the other. “Because,” replied the counsellor, “I should have it good
action against you, and recover.” “Well, well,” cried the officer, “if
I dare not call you rogue, I dare think you one, d—me!” This stroke of
wit he accompanied with a loud laugh of self-approbation, which
unluckily did not affect the audience, but effectually silenced his
antagonist, who did not open his mouth for the space of an hour, except
to clear his pipe with three hems, which however, produced nothing. (Length: 1500 characters)
- CHAPTER LV


I resolve to ingratiate myself with the Mother, and am favoured by
accident—the Precise Lady finds her husband, and quit the Coach—the
Captain is disappointed of his dinner—we arrive at Bath—I accompany
Miss Snapper to the Long-room, where she is attacked by beau Nash, and,
turns the Laugh against him—I make love to her, and receive a
check—Squire her to an Assembly, where I am blessed with a Sight of my
dear Narcissa, which discomposes me so much, that Miss Snapper,
observing my disorder, is at pains to discover the Cause—is piqued at
the Occasion, and, in our way home, pays me a sarcastic Compliment—I am
met by Miss Williams, who is the maid and Confidante of Narcissa—she
acquaints me with her Lady’s regard for me while under the disguise of
a Servant, and describes the Transports of Narcissa on seeing me at the
Assembly, in the Character of a Gentleman—I am surprised with an
Account of her Aunt’s Marriage, and make an Appointment to meet Miss
Williams the next day


During this unsocial interval, my pride and interest maintained a
severe conflict on the subject of Miss Snapper, whom the one
represented as unworthy of notice, and the other proposed as the object
of my whole attention: the advantages and disadvantages of such a match
were opposed to one another by my imagination; and, at length, my
judgment gave it so much in favour of the first, that I resolved to
prosecute my scheme with all the address in my power. (Length: 1481 characters)
- I believe,” said I. “I’ll tell
you,” replied he, “what will do it still more effectually—a halter!
’Sdeath! if I had been such a gull to two such scoundrels as Strutwell
and Straddle, I would, without any more ado, tuck myself up.” Shocked
at this exclamation, I desired him with some confusion to explain
himself; upon which he gave me to understand that Straddle was a poor
contemptible wretch, who lived by borrowing and pimping for his
fellow-peers; that in consequence of this last capacity, he had
doubtless introduced me to Strutwell, who was so notorious for a
passion for his own sex that he was amazed his character had never
reached my ears; and that, far from being able to obtain for me the
post he had promised, his interest at court was so low, that he could
scarce provide for a superannuated footman once a year in the customs
or excise; that it was a common thing for him to amuse strangers, whom
his jackals ran down, with such assurances and caresses as he had
bestowed on me, until he had stripped them of their cash, and
everything valuable about them, very often of their chastity, and then
leave them a prey to want and infamy: that he allowed his servants no
other wages than that part of the spoil which they could glean by their
industry; and the whole of his conduct towards me was so glaring, that
nobody who knew anything of mankind could have been imposed upon by his
insinuations. (Length: 1433 characters)
