Title: The Brothers Karamazov


Top 10 Shortest Sentences:
- Chapter VI. (Words: 2)
- So Be It! (Words: 3)
- Not You, Not You! (Words: 4)
- The Evidence Of The Witnesses. (Words: 5)
- Why Is Such A Man Alive? (Words: 6)
- He spent an irregular boyhood and youth. (Words: 7)
- He seems not to have liked his father. (Words: 8)
- He was nice‐ looking, strongly built, and rather tall. (Words: 9)
- So the poor child exchanged a benefactress for a benefactor. (Words: 10)
- You’ll pray for us sinners; we have sinned too much here. (Words: 11)

Top 10 Longest Words:
- characteristically (Length: 18 characters)
- disinterestedness (Length: 17 characters)
- sanctimoniousness (Length: 17 characters)
- enthusiastically (Length: 16 characters)
- incomprehensible (Length: 16 characters)
- misunderstanding (Length: 16 characters)
- susceptibilities (Length: 16 characters)
- circumstantially (Length: 16 characters)
- indiscriminately (Length: 16 characters)
- superciliousness (Length: 16 characters)

Top 10 Most Common Letters:
- e (Occurrences: 179977)
- t (Occurrences: 139309)
- a (Occurrences: 123053)
- o (Occurrences: 120534)
- i (Occurrences: 105561)
- n (Occurrences: 101623)
- h (Occurrences: 99014)
- s (Occurrences: 90869)
- r (Occurrences: 80200)
- d (Occurrences: 65720)

Top 10 Most Common Words:
- the (Occurrences: 15430)
- and (Occurrences: 11509)
- to (Occurrences: 9614)
- he (Occurrences: 8145)
- i (Occurrences: 8011)
- of (Occurrences: 7420)
- a (Occurrences: 6892)
- you (Occurrences: 6380)
- that (Occurrences: 6192)
- it (Occurrences: 5869)
Top 10 Longest Sentences:
- If I’d only known this!”

I stood facing them all, not laughing now.

“Gentlemen,” I said, “is it really so wonderful in these days to find a
man who can repent of his stupidity and publicly confess his
wrongdoing?”

“But not in a duel,” cried my second again.

“That’s what’s so strange,” I said. “For I ought to have owned my fault
as soon as I got here, before he had fired a shot, before leading him
into a great and deadly sin; but we have made our life so grotesque,
that to act in that way would have been almost impossible, for only
after I have faced his shot at the distance of twelve paces could my
words have any significance for him, and if I had spoken before, he
would have said, ‘He is a coward, the sight of the pistols has
frightened him, no use to listen to him.’ Gentlemen,” I cried suddenly,
speaking straight from my heart, “look around you at the gifts of God,
the clear sky, the pure air, the tender grass, the birds; nature is
beautiful and sinless, and we, only we, are sinful and foolish, and we
don’t understand that life is heaven, for we have only to understand
that and it will at once be fulfilled in all its beauty, we shall
embrace each other and weep.”

I would have said more but I could not; my voice broke with the
sweetness and youthful gladness of it, and there was such bliss in my
heart as I had never known before in my life.

“All this as rational and edifying,” said my antagonist, “and in any
case you are an original person.”

“You may laugh,” I said to him, laughing too, “but afterwards you will
approve of me.”

“Oh, I am ready to approve of you now,” said he; “will you shake hands?
for I believe you are genuinely sincere.”

“No,” I said, “not now, later on when I have grown worthier and deserve
your esteem, then shake hands and you will do well.”

We went home, my second upbraiding me all the way, while I kissed him. (Length: 1914 characters)
- Is it conceivable?”

Here Ippolit Kirillovitch thought it necessary to describe the
personality of Smerdyakov, “who had cut short his life in a fit of
insanity.” He depicted him as a man of weak intellect, with a
smattering of education, who had been thrown off his balance by
philosophical ideas above his level and certain modern theories of
duty, which he learnt in practice from the reckless life of his master,
who was also perhaps his father—Fyodor Pavlovitch; and, theoretically,
from various strange philosophical conversations with his master’s
elder son, Ivan Fyodorovitch, who readily indulged in this diversion,
probably feeling dull or wishing to amuse himself at the valet’s
expense. “He spoke to me himself of his spiritual condition during the
last few days at his father’s house,” Ippolit Kirillovitch explained;
“but others too have borne witness to it—the prisoner himself, his
brother, and the servant Grigory—that is, all who knew him well.

“Moreover, Smerdyakov, whose health was shaken by his attacks of
epilepsy, had not the courage of a chicken. ‘He fell at my feet and
kissed them,’ the prisoner himself has told us, before he realized how
damaging such a statement was to himself. ‘He is an epileptic chicken,’
he declared about him in his characteristic language. (Length: 1313 characters)
- And
when I explained those knocks to you, by means of which one could go in
to the deceased, and that Dmitri Fyodorovitch knew them all through me,
I thought that you would guess yourself that he would be sure to do
something, and so wouldn’t go to Tchermashnya even, but would stay.”

“He talks very coherently,” thought Ivan, “though he does mumble;
what’s the derangement of his faculties that Herzenstube talked of?”

“You are cunning with me, damn you!” he exclaimed, getting angry.

“But I thought at the time that you quite guessed,” Smerdyakov parried
with the simplest air.

“If I’d guessed, I should have stayed,” cried Ivan.

“Why, I thought that it was because you guessed, that you went away in
such a hurry, only to get out of trouble, only to run away and save
yourself in your fright.”

“You think that every one is as great a coward as yourself?”

“Forgive me, I thought you were like me.”

“Of course, I ought to have guessed,” Ivan said in agitation; “and I
did guess there was some mischief brewing on your part ... only you are
lying, you are lying again,” he cried, suddenly recollecting. “Do you
remember how you went up to the carriage and said to me, ‘It’s always
worth while speaking to a clever man’? (Length: 1255 characters)
- This Korneplodov, after questioning him minutely, and inspecting the
documents he was able to bring him (Mitya alluded somewhat vaguely to
these documents, and slurred over the subject with special haste),
reported that they certainly might take proceedings concerning the
village of Tchermashnya, which ought, he said, to have come to him,
Mitya, from his mother, and so checkmate the old villain, his father
... “because every door was not closed and justice might still find a
loophole.” In fact, he might reckon on an additional sum of six or even
seven thousand roubles from Fyodor Pavlovitch, as Tchermashnya was
worth, at least, twenty‐five thousand, he might say twenty‐eight
thousand, in fact, “thirty, thirty, Kuzma Kuzmitch, and would you
believe it, I didn’t get seventeen from that heartless man!” So he,
Mitya, had thrown the business up, for the time, knowing nothing about
the law, but on coming here was struck dumb by a cross‐claim made upon
him (here Mitya went adrift again and again took a flying leap
forward), “so will not you, excellent and honored Kuzma Kuzmitch, be
willing to take up all my claims against that unnatural monster, and
pay me a sum down of only three thousand?... (Length: 1222 characters)
- Though blows
are forbidden, I should have pounded your ugly face to a jelly.”

Smerdyakov looked at him almost with relish.

“In the ordinary occasions of life,” he said in the same complacent and
sententious tone in which he had taunted Grigory and argued with him
about religion at Fyodor Pavlovitch’s table, “in the ordinary occasions
of life, blows on the face are forbidden nowadays by law, and people
have given them up, but in exceptional occasions of life people still
fly to blows, not only among us but all over the world, be it even the
fullest Republic of France, just as in the time of Adam and Eve, and
they never will leave off, but you, even in an exceptional case, did
not dare.”

“What are you learning French words for?” Ivan nodded towards the
exercise‐book lying on the table.

“Why shouldn’t I learn them so as to improve my education, supposing
that I may myself chance to go some day to those happy parts of
Europe?”

“Listen, monster.” Ivan’s eyes flashed and he trembled all over. “I am
not afraid of your accusations; you can say what you like about me, and
if I don’t beat you to death, it’s simply because I suspect you of that
crime and I’ll drag you to justice. (Length: 1217 characters)
- Do not think my question frivolous; on the
contrary, I have in asking the question a secret motive of my own,
which I will perhaps explain to you later on, if it is God’s will that
we should become more intimately acquainted.”

All the while he was speaking, I was looking at him straight into the
face and I felt all at once a complete trust in him and great curiosity
on my side also, for I felt that there was some strange secret in his
soul.

“You ask what were my exact sensations at the moment when I asked my
opponent’s forgiveness,” I answered; “but I had better tell you from
the beginning what I have not yet told any one else.” And I described
all that had passed between Afanasy and me, and how I had bowed down to
the ground at his feet. “From that you can see for yourself,” I
concluded, “that at the time of the duel it was easier for me, for I
had made a beginning already at home, and when once I had started on
that road, to go farther along it was far from being difficult, but
became a source of joy and happiness.”

I liked the way he looked at me as he listened. “All that,” he said,
“is exceedingly interesting. (Length: 1155 characters)
- Yet he still gazed
imploringly at the doctor, as though a word from him might still change
the poor boy’s fate.

“I can’t help it, I am not God!” the doctor answered offhand, though
with the customary impressiveness.

“Doctor ... your Excellency ... and will it be soon, soon?”

“You must be prepared for anything,” said the doctor in emphatic and
incisive tones, and dropping his eyes, he was about to step out to the
coach.

“Your Excellency, for Christ’s sake!” the terror‐stricken captain
stopped him again. “Your Excellency! but can nothing, absolutely
nothing save him now?”

“It’s not in my hands now,” said the doctor impatiently, “but h’m!...”
he stopped suddenly. “If you could, for instance ... send ... your
patient ... at once, without delay” (the words “at once, without
delay,” the doctor uttered with an almost wrathful sternness that made
the captain start) “to Syracuse, the change to the new be‐ne‐ficial
climatic conditions might possibly effect—”

“To Syracuse!” cried the captain, unable to grasp what was said.

“Syracuse is in Sicily,” Kolya jerked out suddenly in explanation. (Length: 1127 characters)
- He seems to me to
have betrayed unconsciously, and so early, that timid despair which
leads so many in our unhappy society, who dread cynicism and its
corrupting influences, and mistakenly attribute all the mischief to
European enlightenment, to return to their ‘native soil,’ as they say,
to the bosom, so to speak, of their mother earth, like frightened
children, yearning to fall asleep on the withered bosom of their
decrepit mother, and to sleep there for ever, only to escape the
horrors that terrify them.

“For my part I wish the excellent and gifted young man every success; I
trust that his youthful idealism and impulse towards the ideas of the
people may never degenerate, as often happens, on the moral side into
gloomy mysticism, and on the political into blind chauvinism—two
elements which are even a greater menace to Russia than the premature
decay, due to misunderstanding and gratuitous adoption of European
ideas, from which his elder brother is suffering.”

Two or three people clapped their hands at the mention of chauvinism
and mysticism. (Length: 1082 characters)
- It’s winter now
and there are no cabbages, and so the old woman couldn’t have taken
Katerina a daughter.”

Kolya whistled to himself.

“Or perhaps they do bring babies from somewhere, but only to those who
are married.”

Kostya stared at Nastya and listened, pondering profoundly.

“Nastya, how silly you are!” he said at last, firmly and calmly. “How
can Katerina have a baby when she isn’t married?”

Nastya was exasperated.

“You know nothing about it,” she snapped irritably. “Perhaps she has a
husband, only he is in prison, so now she’s got a baby.”

“But is her husband in prison?” the matter‐of‐fact Kostya inquired
gravely.

“Or, I tell you what,” Nastya interrupted impulsively, completely
rejecting and forgetting her first hypothesis. “She hasn’t a husband,
you are right there, but she wants to be married, and so she’s been
thinking of getting married, and thinking and thinking of it till now
she’s got it, that is, not a husband but a baby.”

“Well, perhaps so,” Kostya agreed, entirely vanquished. “But you didn’t
say so before. (Length: 1074 characters)
- Alyosha, carried away himself
by his recollection, warmly expressed his theory that this disgrace was
probably just that fifteen hundred roubles on him, which he might have
returned to Katerina Ivanovna as half of what he owed her, but which he
had yet determined not to repay her and to use for another
purpose—namely, to enable him to elope with Grushenka, if she
consented.

“It is so, it must be so,” exclaimed Alyosha, in sudden excitement. “My
brother cried several times that half of the disgrace, half of it (he
said _half_ several times) he could free himself from at once, but that
he was so unhappy in his weakness of will that he wouldn’t do it ...
that he knew beforehand he was incapable of doing it!”

“And you clearly, confidently remember that he struck himself just on
this part of the breast?” Fetyukovitch asked eagerly.

“Clearly and confidently, for I thought at the time, ‘Why does he
strike himself up there when the heart is lower down?’ and the thought
seemed stupid to me at the time ... (Length: 1033 characters)
