Title: The Prophet


Top 10 Shortest Sentences:
- Section 1. (Words: 2)
- I am ready. (Words: 3)
- But how shall I? (Words: 4)
- Much have we loved you. (Words: 5)
- And how else can it be? (Words: 6)
- He threshes you to make you naked. (Words: 7)
- To know the pain of too much tenderness. (Words: 8)
- But you are life and you are the veil. (Words: 9)
- And of the man in you would I now speak. (Words: 10)

Top 10 Longest Words:
- unenforceability (Length: 16 characters)
- overwakefulness (Length: 15 characters)
- representations (Length: 15 characters)
- MERCHANTABILITY (Length: 15 characters)
- Redistribution (Length: 14 characters)
- redistribution (Length: 14 characters)
- Redistributing (Length: 14 characters)
- redistributing (Length: 14 characters)
- nonproprietary (Length: 14 characters)
- electronically (Length: 14 characters)

Top 10 Most Common Letters:
- e (Occurrences: 7954)
- t (Occurrences: 5970)
- o (Occurrences: 5588)
- a (Occurrences: 4934)
- n (Occurrences: 4729)
- i (Occurrences: 4290)
- s (Occurrences: 4190)
- r (Occurrences: 4073)
- h (Occurrences: 3974)
- d (Occurrences: 2721)

Top 10 Most Common Words:
- the (Occurrences: 1018)
- and (Occurrences: 806)
- you (Occurrences: 532)
- of (Occurrences: 531)
- in (Occurrences: 365)
- your (Occurrences: 341)
- to (Occurrences: 325)
- a (Occurrences: 286)
- is (Occurrences: 266)
- that (Occurrences: 211)
Top 10 Longest Sentences:
- Knopf

1923

_The Twelve Illustrations In This Volume
Are Reproduced From Original Drawings By
The Author_




“His power came from some great reservoir
of spiritual life else it could not have
been so universal and so potent, but the
majesty and beauty of the language with
which he clothed it were all his own?”

--Claude Bragdon


THE BOOKS OF KAHLIL GIBRAN

The Madman. 1918 Twenty Drawings. 1919
The Forerunner. 1920 The Prophet. 1923
Sand and Foam. 1926 Jesus the Son of
Man. 1928 The Forth Gods. 1931 The
Wanderer. 1932 The Garden of the Prophet
1933 Prose Poems. 1934 Nymphs of the
Valley. 1948




CONTENTS

          The Coming of the Ship
          On Love
          On Marriage
          On Children
          On Giving
          On Eating and Drinking
          On Work
          On Joy and Sorrow
          On Houses
          On Clothes
          On Buying and Selling
          On Crime and Punishment
          On Laws
          On Freedom
          On Reason and Passion
          On Pain
          On Self-Knowledge
          On Teaching
          On Friendship
          On Talking
          On Time
          On Good and Evil
          On Prayer
          On Pleasure
          On Beauty
          On Religion
          On Death
          The Farewell




THE PROPHET

Almustafa, the chosen and the
beloved, who was a dawn unto his own
day, had waited twelve years in the city
of Orphalese for his ship that was to
return and bear him back to the isle of
his birth. (Length: 1560 characters)
- Your blood and my blood is naught but
the sap that feeds the tree of heaven.”

*****

And when you crush an apple with your
teeth, say to it in your heart,

“Your seeds shall live in my body,

And the buds of your tomorrow shall
blossom in my heart,

And your fragrance shall be my breath,
And together we shall rejoice through
all the seasons.”

*****

And in the autumn, when you gather
the grapes of your vineyards for the
winepress, say in your heart,

“I too am a vineyard, and my fruit shall
be gathered for the winepress,

And like new wine I shall be kept in
eternal vessels.”

And in winter, when you draw the wine,
let there be in your heart a song
for each cup;

And let there be in the song a
remembrance for the autumn days, and for
the vineyard, and for the winepress.

*****
*****

Then a ploughman said, Speak
to us of _Work_. (Length: 883 characters)
- Her voice yields to our
silences like a faint light that quivers
in fear of the shadow.”

But the restless say, “We have heard her
shouting among the mountains,

And with her cries came the sound of
hoofs, and the beating of wings and the
roaring of lions.”

At night the watchmen of the city say,
“Beauty shall rise with the dawn from
the east.”

And at noontide the toilers and the
wayfarers say, “We have seen her leaning
over the earth from the windows of the
sunset.”

*****

In winter say the snow-bound, “She shall
come with the spring leaping upon the
hills.”

And in the summer heat the reapers
say, “We have seen her dancing with the
autumn leaves, and we saw a drift of
snow in her hair.”

All these things have you said of beauty,

Yet in truth you spoke not of her but of
needs unsatisfied,

And beauty is not a need but an ecstasy. (Length: 881 characters)
- Surely you would not honour one guest
above the other; for he who is more
mindful of one loses the love and the
faith of both

Among the hills, when you sit in the
cool shade of the white poplars, sharing
the peace and serenity of distant fields
and meadows--then let your heart say in
silence, “God rests in reason.”

And when the storm comes, and the
mighty wind shakes the forest,
and thunder and lightning proclaim the
majesty of the sky,--then let your heart
say in awe, “God moves in passion.”

And since you are a breath in God’s
sphere, and a leaf in God’s forest, you
too should rest in reason and move in
passion.

***** *****

And a woman spoke, saying, Tell us
of _Pain_. (Length: 708 characters)
- INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause. (Length: 685 characters)
- You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. (Length: 620 characters)
- The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. (Length: 544 characters)
- Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. (Length: 511 characters)
- But I say to you that when you work you
fulfil a part of earth’s furthest dream,
assigned to you when that dream was
born,

And in keeping yourself with labour you
are in truth loving life,

And to love life through labour is to be
intimate with life’s inmost secret.

*****

But if you in your pain call birth an
affliction and the support of the flesh
a curse written upon your brow, then I
answer that naught but the sweat of
your brow shall wash away that which is
written. (Length: 495 characters)
- START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license. (Length: 479 characters)
