Title: The Prince


Top 10 Shortest Sentences:
- CHAPTER XXI. (Words: 2)
- Vettori, see A. (Words: 3)
- Born 1460, died 1510. (Words: 4)
- Polidori, 1852; Lettere familiari, ed. (Words: 5)
- II of Aragon and Sicily, F. (Words: 6)
- But let us return whence we started. (Words: 7)
- Machiavelli nel libro Il Principe, etc.; D. (Words: 8)
- There are, for example, the Spartans and the Romans. (Words: 9)
- Alvisi, 1883, 2 editions, one with excisions; Credited Writings, ed. (Words: 10)
- What he achieved cannot be attributed either to fortune or genius. (Words: 11)

Top 10 Longest Words:
- incontrovertible (Length: 16 characters)
- correspondencies (Length: 16 characters)
- unenforceability (Length: 16 characters)
- carnascialeschi (Length: 15 characters)
- notwithstanding (Length: 15 characters)
- instrumentality (Length: 15 characters)
- characteristics (Length: 15 characters)
- disadvantageous (Length: 15 characters)
- comprehensively (Length: 15 characters)
- Notwithstanding (Length: 15 characters)

Top 10 Most Common Letters:
- e (Occurrences: 30911)
- t (Occurrences: 22338)
- o (Occurrences: 18806)
- a (Occurrences: 18216)
- i (Occurrences: 17758)
- n (Occurrences: 16887)
- h (Occurrences: 15415)
- s (Occurrences: 14639)
- r (Occurrences: 14272)
- d (Occurrences: 9765)

Top 10 Most Common Words:
- the (Occurrences: 3119)
- to (Occurrences: 2125)
- and (Occurrences: 1948)
- of (Occurrences: 1817)
- in (Occurrences: 1000)
- he (Occurrences: 922)
- a (Occurrences: 787)
- that (Occurrences: 747)
- his (Occurrences: 642)
- it (Occurrences: 586)
Top 10 Longest Sentences:
- He was once asked when should a man eat
to preserve his health, and replied: “If the man be rich let him eat
when he is hungry; if he be poor, then when he can.” Seeing one of his
gentlemen make a member of his family lace him up, he said to him: “I
pray God that you will let him feed you also.” Seeing that someone had
written upon his house in Latin the words: “May God preserve this house
from the wicked,” he said, “The owner must never go in.” Passing
through one of the streets he saw a small house with a very large door,
and remarked: “That house will fly through the door.” He was having a
discussion with the ambassador of the King of Naples concerning the
property of some banished nobles, when a dispute arose between them,
and the ambassador asked him if he had no fear of the king. “Is this
king of yours a bad man or a good one?” asked Castruccio, and was told
that he was a good one, whereupon he said, “Why should you suggest that
I should be afraid of a good man?”

I could recount many other stories of his sayings both witty and
weighty, but I think that the above will be sufficient testimony to his
high qualities. (Length: 1155 characters)
- When told by a priest that it
was wicked for him to live so sumptuously, Castruccio said: “If that be
a vice then you should not fare so splendidly at the feasts of our
saints.” Passing through a street he saw a young man as he came out of
a house of ill fame blush at being seen by Castruccio, and said to him:
“Thou shouldst not be ashamed when thou comest out, but when thou goest
into such places.” A friend gave him a very curiously tied knot to undo
and was told: “Fool, do you think that I wish to untie a thing which
gave so much trouble to fasten.” Castruccio said to one who professed
to be a philosopher: “You are like the dogs who always run after those
who will give them the best to eat,” and was answered: “We are rather
like the doctors who go to the houses of those who have the greatest
need of them.” Going by water from Pisa to Leghorn, Castruccio was much
disturbed by a dangerous storm that sprang up, and was reproached for
cowardice by one of those with him, who said that he did not fear
anything. (Length: 1037 characters)
- Nevertheless, not to extinguish our free will, I hold it to be true
that Fortune is the arbiter of one-half of our actions,[1] but that she
still leaves us to direct the other half, or perhaps a little less.

 [1] Frederick the Great was accustomed to say: “The older one gets the
 more convinced one becomes that his Majesty King Chance does
 three-quarters of the business of this miserable universe.” Sorel’s
 “Eastern Question.”

I compare her to one of those raging rivers, which when in flood
overflows the plains, sweeping away trees and buildings, bearing away
the soil from place to place; everything flies before it, all yield to
its violence, without being able in any way to withstand it; and yet,
though its nature be such, it does not follow therefore that men, when
the weather becomes fair, shall not make provision, both with defences
and barriers, in such a manner that, rising again, the waters may pass
away by canal, and their force be neither so unrestrained nor so
dangerous. (Length: 1015 characters)
- Therefore, putting on one side imaginary things concerning a prince,
and discussing those which are real, I say that all men when they are
spoken of, and chiefly princes for being more highly placed, are
remarkable for some of those qualities which bring them either blame or
praise; and thus it is that one is reputed liberal, another miserly,
using a Tuscan term (because an avaricious person in our language is
still he who desires to possess by robbery, whilst we call one miserly
who deprives himself too much of the use of his own); one is reputed
generous, one rapacious; one cruel, one compassionate; one faithless,
another faithful; one effeminate and cowardly, another bold and brave;
one affable, another haughty; one lascivious, another chaste; one
sincere, another cunning; one hard, another easy; one grave, another
frivolous; one religious, another unbelieving, and the like. (Length: 902 characters)
- Castruccio gathered some
saliva in his mouth and spat it out upon Taddeo, and seeing him much
disturbed by this, said to him: “I knew not where to spit in order to
offend thee less.” Being asked how Caesar died he said: “God willing I
will die as he did.” Being one night in the house of one of his
gentlemen where many ladies were assembled, he was reproved by one of
his friends for dancing and amusing himself with them more than was
usual in one of his station, so he said: “He who is considered wise by
day will not be considered a fool at night.” A person came to demand a
favour of Castruccio, and thinking he was not listening to his plea
threw himself on his knees to the ground, and being sharply reproved by
Castruccio, said: “Thou art the reason of my acting thus for thou hast
thy ears in thy feet,” whereupon he obtained double the favour he had
asked. (Length: 879 characters)
- Among the best ordered and governed kingdoms of our times is France,
and in it are found many good institutions on which depend the liberty
and security of the king; of these the first is the parliament and its
authority, because he who founded the kingdom, knowing the ambition of
the nobility and their boldness, considered that a bit to their mouths
would be necessary to hold them in; and, on the other side, knowing the
hatred of the people, founded in fear, against the nobles, he wished to
protect them, yet he was not anxious for this to be the particular care
of the king; therefore, to take away the reproach which he would be
liable to from the nobles for favouring the people, and from the people
for favouring the nobles, he set up an arbiter, who should be one who
could beat down the great and favour the lesser without reproach to the
king. (Length: 868 characters)
- Therefore, the
Romans, foreseeing troubles, dealt with them at once, and, even to
avoid a war, would not let them come to a head, for they knew that war
is not to be avoided, but is only to be put off to the advantage of
others; moreover they wished to fight with Philip and Antiochus in
Greece so as not to have to do it in Italy; they could have avoided
both, but this they did not wish; nor did that ever please them which
is forever in the mouths of the wise ones of our time:—Let us enjoy the
benefits of the time—but rather the benefits of their own valour and
prudence, for time drives everything before it, and is able to bring
with it good as well as evil, and evil as well as good.

 [2] See remark in the introduction on the word “intrattenere.”

But let us turn to France and inquire whether she has done any of the
things mentioned. (Length: 860 characters)
- Of this endless
modern examples could be given, showing how many treaties and
engagements have been made void and of no effect through the
faithlessness of princes; and he who has known best how to employ the
fox has succeeded best.

 [2] “Contesting,” _i.e_. “striving for mastery.” Mr Burd points out
 that this passage is imitated directly from Cicero’s “De Officiis”:
 “Nam cum sint duo genera decertandi, unum per disceptationem, alterum
 per vim; cumque illud proprium sit hominis, hoc beluarum; confugiendum
 est ad posterius, si uti non licet superiore.”

But it is necessary to know well how to disguise this characteristic,
and to be a great pretender and dissembler; and men are so simple, and
so subject to present necessities, that he who seeks to deceive will
always find someone who will allow himself to be deceived. (Length: 847 characters)
- I do not wish to discuss Heliogabalus, Macrinus, or Julian, who, being
thoroughly contemptible, were quickly wiped out; but I will bring this
discourse to a conclusion by saying that princes in our times have this
difficulty of giving inordinate satisfaction to their soldiers in a far
less degree, because, notwithstanding one has to give them some
indulgence, that is soon done; none of these princes have armies that
are veterans in the governance and administration of provinces, as were
the armies of the Roman Empire; and whereas it was then more necessary
to give satisfaction to the soldiers than to the people, it is now more
necessary to all princes, except the Turk and the Soldan, to satisfy
the people rather the soldiers, because the people are the more
powerful. (Length: 788 characters)
- States that rise unexpectedly, then, like all other things in nature
which are born and grow rapidly, cannot leave their foundations and
correspondencies[1] fixed in such a way that the first storm will not
overthrow them; unless, as is said, those who unexpectedly become
princes are men of so much ability that they know they have to be
prepared at once to hold that which fortune has thrown into their laps,
and that those foundations, which others have laid _before_ they became
princes, they must lay _afterwards_.

 [1] “Le radici e corrispondenze,” their roots (i.e. foundations) and
 correspondencies or relations with other states—a common meaning of
 “correspondence” and “correspondency” in the sixteenth and seventeenth
 centuries. (Length: 755 characters)
