Title: The Adventures of Ferdinand Count Fathom — Complete


Top 10 Shortest Sentences:
- CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO. (Words: 2)
- Maynadier, Ph.D. (Words: 3)
- The sarcasm took effect. (Words: 4)
- Department of English, Harvard University. (Words: 5)
- The stratagem succeeded to his wish. (Words: 6)
- Such extensive knowledge did not pass unobserved. (Words: 7)
- He falls upon Scylla, seeking to avoid Charybdis. (Words: 8)
- He was not deficient in expressions of reciprocal regard. (Words: 9)
- That he had a powerful imagination is not a surprise. (Words: 10)
- The first of these is the comparative lifelessness of the book. (Words: 11)

Top 10 Longest Words:
- misrepresentations (Length: 18 characters)
- misrepresentation (Length: 17 characters)
- misinterpretation (Length: 17 characters)
- misunderstandings (Length: 17 characters)
- misconstructions (Length: 16 characters)
- straightforwards (Length: 16 characters)
- unreasonableness (Length: 16 characters)
- undistinguishing (Length: 16 characters)
- misunderstanding (Length: 16 characters)
- circumstantially (Length: 16 characters)

Top 10 Most Common Letters:
- e (Occurrences: 99550)
- t (Occurrences: 69767)
- o (Occurrences: 60326)
- a (Occurrences: 59323)
- i (Occurrences: 57386)
- n (Occurrences: 55846)
- h (Occurrences: 52224)
- s (Occurrences: 48939)
- r (Occurrences: 47399)
- d (Occurrences: 34771)

Top 10 Most Common Words:
- the (Occurrences: 10142)
- of (Occurrences: 7353)
- to (Occurrences: 5362)
- and (Occurrences: 5228)
- his (Occurrences: 4014)
- in (Occurrences: 3438)
- a (Occurrences: 3384)
- he (Occurrences: 3310)
- with (Occurrences: 2277)
- that (Occurrences: 2214)
Top 10 Longest Sentences:
- Or,
perhaps, of that class, who, in the sapience of taste, are disgusted
with those very flavours in the productions of their own country which
have yielded infinite delectation to their faculties, when imported
from another clime; and d—n an author in despite of all precedent and
prescription;—who extol the writings of Petronius Arbiter, read with
rapture the amorous sallies of Ovid’s pen, and chuckle over the story
of Lucian’s ass; yet, if a modern author presumes to relate the
progress of a simple intrigue, are shocked at the indecency and
immorality of the scene;—who delight in following Guzman d’Alfarache,
through all the mazes of squalid beggary; who with pleasure accompany
Don Quixote and his squire, in the lowest paths of fortune; who are
diverted with the adventures of Scarron’s ragged troop of strollers,
and highly entertained with the servile situations of Gil Blas; yet,
when a character in humble life occasionally occurs in a performance of
our own growth, exclaim, with an air of disgust, “Was ever anything so
mean! sure, this writer must have been very conversant with the lowest
scenes of life;”—who, when Swift or Pope represents a coxcomb in the
act of swearing, scruple not to laugh at the ridiculous execrations;
but, in a less reputed author, condemn the use of such profane
expletives;—who eagerly explore the jakes of Rabelais, for amusement,
and even extract humour from the dean’s description of a lady’s
dressing-room; yet in a production of these days, unstamped with such
venerable names, will stop their noses, with all the signs of loathing
and abhorrence, at a bare mention of the china chamber-pot;—who
applauded Catullus, Juvenal, Persius, and Lucan, for their spirit in
lashing the greatest names of antiquity; yet, when a British satirist,
of this generation, has courage enough to call in question the talents
of a pseudo-patron in power, accuse him of insolence, rancour, and
scurrility. (Length: 1967 characters)
- He was lucky enough to find our adventurer sitting at a table in
conversation with some persons of the first rank; upon which he seated
himself in the next box, and after having intruded himself into their
discourse, which happened to turn upon the politics of some German
courts, “Count,” said he to Ferdinand, in a very abrupt and
disagreeable manner of address, “I was last night in company with some
gentlemen, among whom a dispute happened about the place of your
nativity; pray, what country are you of?” “Sir,” answered the other,
with great politeness, “I at present have the honour to be of England.”
“Oho!” replied the chevalier, “I ask your pardon, that is to say, you
are incog; some people may find it convenient to keep themselves in
that situation.” “True,” said the Count, “but some people are too well
known to enjoy that privilege.” The Swiss being a little disconcerted
at this repartee, which extracted a smile from the audience, after some
pause, observed, that persons of a certain class had good reason to
drop the remembrance of what they have been; but a good citizen will
not forget his country, or former condition. “And a bad citizen,” said
Fathom, “cannot, if he would, provided he has met with his deserts; a
sharper may as well forget the shape of a die, or a discarded soldier
the sound of a drum.”

As the chevalier’s character and story were not unknown, this
application raised an universal laugh at his expense, which provoked
him to such a degree, that, starting up, he swore Fathom could not have
mentioned any object in nature that he himself resembled so much as a
drum, which was exactly typified by his emptiness and sound, with this
difference, however, that a drum was never noisy till beaten, whereas
the Count would never be quiet, until he should have undergone the same
discipline. (Length: 1857 characters)
- To remedy these
sinkings, certain cordials were immediately administered, according to
the prescription of Doctor Fathom, upon whom extraordinary encomiums
were bestowed by all present, who believed he had actually rescued her
from the jaws of death; and as he was by this time let into the secrets
of the family, he found himself in a fair way of being an egregious
favourite of the old gentlewoman; when, unluckily, his brother, having
dismissed his country patient with uncommon despatch, entered the
apartment, and eyed his rival with looks of inexpressible rage; then,
surveying the patient, and the phials that stood upon the table, by
turns, “What, in the name of God!” cried he, “is the meaning of all
this trash!”

“Really, doctor,” replied the mother, a little confounded at being thus
taken by surprise, “Biddy has been taken dangerously ill, and lain
seven or eight hours in a severe fit, from which I am confident she
would never have recovered without the help of a physician; and as you
were absent, we had recourse to this gentleman, whose prescription hath
had a happy and surprising effect.” “Effect!” cried this offended
member of the faculty, “pshaw!—stuff!—who made you judge of effects or
causes?” Then advancing to the patient, “What has been the matter, Miss
Biddy, that you could not wait till my return?”

Here Fathom interposing, “Sir,” said he, “if you will step into the
next room, I will communicate my sentiments of the case, together with
the method upon which I have proceeded, that we may deliberate upon the
next step that is to be taken.” Instead of complying with this
proposal, he seated himself in a chair, with his back to our
adventurer, and, while he examined Miss Biddy’s pulse, gave him to
understand, that he should not consult with him about the matter. (Length: 1828 characters)
- In an honourable cause, I despise all danger; my courage, thank
Heaven! has been manifested in many public engagements as well as in
private rencounters; but, to break with my friend, whose eminent
virtues I admire, and even to seek his life, on such a scandalous
occasion, for a little insignificant w—-e, who, I suppose, took the
advantage of our intoxication, to foment the quarrel: by Heaven! my
conscience cannot digest it.”

Having expressed himself to this purpose, he waited impatiently for the
reply of Ferdinand, who, after a pause of deliberation, offered his
services in the way of mediation; though, he observed, it was a matter
of great delicacy, and the event altogether uncertain. “Nevertheless,”
added our adventurer, “I will strive to appease the knight, who, I
hope, will be induced by my remonstrances to forget the unlucky
accident, which hath so disagreeably interrupted your mutual
friendship.” The German thanked him for this proof of his regard, which
yielded him more satisfaction on account of the chevalier than of
himself. “For, by the tombs of my fathers,” cried he, “I have so little
concern for my personal safety, that, if my honour were interested, I
durst oppose myself singly to the whole ban of the empire; and I am now
ready, if the chevalier requires it, to give him the rendezvous in the
forest of Senlis, either on horseback or on foot, where this contest
may be terminated with the life of one or both of us.”

Count Fathom, with a view to chastise the Westphalian for this
rhodomontade, told him, with a mortifying air of indifference, that if
they were both bent upon taking the field, he would save himself the
trouble of interposing farther in the affair; and desired to know the
hour at which it would suit him to take the air with the baronet. (Length: 1819 characters)
- Monimia no sooner retrieved the use of her faculties, than looking
around, and observing with what humane concern her new hostess was
employed in effecting her recovery, “Is this,” said she, “a flattering
illusion of the brain? or am I really under the protection of some
beneficent being, whom Heaven hath inspired with generosity to rescue
an hapless stranger from the most forlorn state of misery and woe?” Her
voice was at all times ravishingly sweet; and this exclamation was
pronounced with such pathetic fervour, that Madam Clement clasped her
in her arms, and kissing her with all the eagerness of maternal
affection, “Yes,” cried she, “fair creature, Heaven hath bestowed upon
me an heart to compassionate, and power, I hope, to lighten the burden
of your sorrows.”

She then prevailed upon her to take some nourishment, and afterwards to
recount the particulars of her fate; a task she performed with such
accuracy and candour, that Madam Clement, far from suspecting her
sincerity, saw truth and conviction in every circumstance of her tale;
and, having condoled her misfortunes, entreated her to forget them, or
at least look upon herself as one sheltered under the care and tuition
of a person whose study it would be to supply her want of natural
parents. (Length: 1289 characters)
- In this order did the procession
advance to the apartment in which the magistrate, with his fellows of
the chase, sat smoking his morning pipe over a tankard of strong ale,
and the smuggler being directed to the right person, “May it please
your worship,” said he, “I have brought this foreigner before you, on a
violent suspicion of his being a proclaimed outlaw; and I desire,
before these witnesses, that my title may be made good to the reward
that shall become due upon his conviction.”

“Friend,” replied the justice, “I know nothing of you or your titles;
but this I know, if you have any information to give in, you must come
to my house when I am at home, and proceed in a lawful way, that is,
d’ye mind me, if you swear as how this here person is an outlaw; then
if so be as he has nothing to say to the contrary, my clerk shall make
out a mittimus, and so to jail with him till next ’size.” “But, sir,”
answered the impeacher, “this is a case that admits of no delay; the
person I have apprehended is a prisoner of consequence to the state.”
“How, fellor!” cried the magistrate, interrupting him, “is there any
person of more consequence than one of his Majesty’s justices of the
peace, who is besides a considerable member of the landed interest! (Length: 1277 characters)
- I
unsheathed it without deliberation, saying, ‘Know, insolent boy, he is
a gentleman whom thou hast outraged; and thou hast thus cancelled the
ties which have hitherto restrained my indignation.’ His servants would
have interposed, but he commanded them to retire; and, flushed with
that confidence which the impetuosity of his temper inspired, he drew,
in his turn, and attacked me with redoubled rage; but his dexterity
being very unequal to his courage, he was soon disarmed, and
overthrown; when, pointing my sword to his breast, ‘In consideration of
thy youth and ignorance,’ said I, ‘I spare that life which thou hast
forfeited by thy ungenerous presumption.’

“With these words, I put up my weapon, retired through the midst of his
domestics, who, seeing their master safe, did not think proper to
oppose my passage, and, mounting my horse, in less than two hours
entered the Austrian dominions, resolving to proceed as far as Holland,
that I might embark in the first ship for Spain, in order to wash away,
with my own blood, or that of my enemies, the cruel stain which hath so
long defiled my reputation.

“This was the grievance that still corroded my heart, and rendered
ineffectual the inhuman sacrifice I had made to my injured honour. (Length: 1270 characters)
- I could not trust to the evidence of my own senses, and
should have still believed her innocent, in spite of ocular
demonstration, had not she, in the terrors of being tried for felony,
promised to make a very material discovery to the Countess, provided
she would take such measures as would save her life.

“This request being complied with, she, in my hearing, opened up such
an amazing scene of iniquity, baseness, and ingratitude, which had been
acted by her and Fathom, in order to defraud the family to which they
were so much indebted, that I could not have believed the human mind
capable of such degeneracy, or that traitor endowed with such
pernicious cunning and dissimulation, had not her tale been congruous,
consistent, and distinct, and fraught with circumstances that left no
room to doubt the least article of her confession; on consideration of
which she was permitted to go into voluntary exile.”

She then explained their combination in all the particulars, as we have
already recounted them in their proper place, and finally observed,
that the opinion she had hence conceived of Fathom’s character, was
confirmed by what she had since learned of his perfidious conduct
towards that very nun who had lately taken the veil. (Length: 1264 characters)
- Then he thus proceeded: “My coming hither to-day was with a view to
visit a poor female relation, from whom I yesterday received a letter,
describing her most deplorable situation, and soliciting my assistance;
but the turnkey affirms that there is no such person in the jail, and I
was on my way to consult the keeper, when I was agreeably surprised
with the sight of my dear Fathom.”

Our adventurer having wiped from his eyes the tears which were produced
by the news of his worthy patron’s death, desired to know the name of
that afflicted prisoner, in whose behalf he interested himself so much,
and Renaldo produced the letter, subscribed, “Your unfortunate cousin,
Helen Melvil.” This pretended relation, after having explained the
degree of consanguinity which she and the Count stood in to each other,
and occasionally mentioned some anecdotes of the family in Scotland,
gave him to understand that she had married a merchant of London, who,
by repeated losses in trade, had been reduced to indigence, and
afterwards confined to prison, where he then lay a breathless corpse,
having left her in the utmost extremity of wretchedness and want, with
two young children in the smallpox, and an incurable cancer in one of
her own breasts. (Length: 1261 characters)
- He had, it
seems, quarrelled over his cups with another tradesman, and received a
salutation on the forehead with a candlestick, which not only left an
ignominious and painful mark upon his countenance, but even disordered
his brain to a very dangerous degree of delirium; so that, instead of
allowing himself quietly to be undressed and put to bed by his wife, he
answered all her gentle admonitions and caresses with the most
opprobrious invectives and obstreperous behaviour; and, though he did
not tax her with infidelity to his bed, he virulently accused her of
extravagance and want of economy; observed, her expensive way of living
would bring him to a morsel of bread; and unfortunately recollecting
the attempt of the supposed thief, started up from his chair, swearing
by G—’s mother that he would forthwith arm himself with a brace of
pistols, and search every apartment in the house. “That press,” said
he, with great vociferation, “may, for aught I know, be the receptacle
of some ruffian.”

So saying, he approached the ark in which Fathom was embarked, and
exclaiming, “Come forth, Satan,” applied his foot to the door of it,
with such violence as threw him from the centre of gravity, and laid
him sprawling on his back. (Length: 1256 characters)
