Title: The Scarlet Letter


Top 10 Shortest Sentences:
- Surveyor Pue. (Words: 2)
- Let him live! (Words: 3)
- COPYRIGHT, 1850 AND 1877. (Words: 4)
- My doom was on me. (Words: 5)
- BY NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE AND JAMES R. (Words: 6)
- So has it been in my case. (Words: 7)
- But the sentiment has likewise its moral quality. (Words: 8)
- His countenance, in this repose, was mild and kindly. (Words: 9)
- I shuddered, and involuntarily let it fall upon the floor. (Words: 10)
- P., Clerk of this Parish,” was never more faithfully followed. (Words: 11)

Top 10 Longest Words:
- indistinguishable (Length: 17 characters)
- autobiographical (Length: 16 characters)
- responsibilities (Length: 16 characters)
- incomprehensible (Length: 16 characters)
- susceptibilities (Length: 16 characters)
- irresponsibility (Length: 16 characters)
- unenforceability (Length: 16 characters)
- transplantation (Length: 15 characters)
- administrations (Length: 15 characters)
- philanthropists (Length: 15 characters)

Top 10 Most Common Letters:
- e (Occurrences: 52316)
- t (Occurrences: 37758)
- a (Occurrences: 30483)
- o (Occurrences: 29116)
- i (Occurrences: 27832)
- h (Occurrences: 27059)
- n (Occurrences: 26683)
- r (Occurrences: 25184)
- s (Occurrences: 25002)
- l (Occurrences: 16768)

Top 10 Most Common Words:
- the (Occurrences: 5500)
- of (Occurrences: 3380)
- and (Occurrences: 2877)
- a (Occurrences: 2162)
- to (Occurrences: 2084)
- in (Occurrences: 1488)
- it (Occurrences: 1135)
- that (Occurrences: 1082)
- with (Occurrences: 1052)
- her (Occurrences: 965)
Top 10 Longest Sentences:
- I WILL NOT LOSE THE CHILD!”          135

THE MINISTER AND LEECH                                 148

THE LEECH AND HIS PATIENT                              165

THE VIRGINS OF THE CHURCH                              172

“THEY STOOD IN THE NOON OF THAT STRANGE SPLENDOR”      185

HESTER IN THE HOUSE OF MOURNING                        195

MANDRAKE                                               211

“HE GATHERED HERBS HERE AND THERE”                     213

PEARL ON THE SEA-SHORE                                 217

“WILT THOU YET FORGIVE ME?”                            237

A GLEAM OF SUNSHINE                                    249

THE CHILD AT THE BROOK-SIDE                            257

CHILLINGWORTH,—“SMILE WITH A SINISTER MEANING”         287

NEW ENGLAND WORTHIES                                   289

“SHALL WE NOT MEET AGAIN?”                             311

HESTER’S RETURN                                        320




                           THE CUSTOM-HOUSE.

[Illustration: The Custom-House]




                           THE CUSTOM-HOUSE. (Length: 1114 characters)
- In accomplishing the
main purpose, it has appeared allowable, by a few extra touches, to
give a faint representation of a mode of life not heretofore
described, together with some of the characters that move in it, among
whom the author happened to make one.

       *       *       *       *       *

In my native town of Salem, at the head of what, half a century ago,
in the days of old King Derby, was a bustling wharf,—but which is now
burdened with decayed wooden warehouses, and exhibits few or no
symptoms of commercial life; except, perhaps, a bark or brig, half-way
down its melancholy length, discharging hides; or, nearer at hand, a
Nova Scotia schooner, pitching out her cargo of firewood,—at the
head, I say, of this dilapidated wharf, which the tide often
overflows, and along which, at the base and in the rear of the row of
buildings, the track of many languid years is seen in a border of
unthrifty grass,—here, with a view from its front windows adown this
not very enlivening prospect, and thence across the harbor, stands a
spacious edifice of brick. (Length: 1090 characters)
- Two or three
times, as her mother and she went homeward, and as often at
supper-time, and while Hester was putting her to bed, and once after
she seemed to be fairly asleep, Pearl looked up, with mischief
gleaming in her black eyes.

“Mother,” said she, “what does the scarlet letter mean?”

And the next morning, the first indication the child gave of being
awake was by popping up her head from the pillow, and making that
other inquiry, which she had so unaccountably connected with her
investigations about the scarlet letter:—

“Mother!—Mother!—Why does the minister keep his hand over his
heart?”

“Hold thy tongue, naughty child!” answered her mother, with an
asperity that she had never permitted to herself before. “Do not tease
me; else I shall shut thee into the dark closet!”

[Illustration]




                            [Illustration]

                                 XVI. (Length: 916 characters)
- If the latter possess native sagacity, and
a nameless something more,—let us call it intuition; if he show no
intrusive egotism, nor disagreeably prominent characteristics of his
own; if he have the power, which must be born with him, to bring his
mind into such affinity with his patient’s, that this last shall
unawares have spoken what he imagines himself only to have thought; if
such revelations be received without tumult, and acknowledged not so
often by an uttered sympathy as by silence, an inarticulate breath,
and here and there a word, to indicate that all is understood; if to
these qualifications of a confidant be joined the advantages afforded
by his recognized character as a physician;—then, at some inevitable
moment, will the soul of the sufferer be dissolved, and flow forth in
a dark, but transparent stream, bringing all its mysteries into the
daylight. (Length: 889 characters)
- He longed
to speak out, from his own pulpit, at the full height of his voice,
and tell the people what he was. “I, whom you behold in these black
garments of the priesthood,—I, who ascend the sacred desk, and turn
my pale face heavenward, taking upon myself to hold communion, in your
behalf, with the Most High Omniscience,—I, in whose daily life you
discern the sanctity of Enoch,—I, whose footsteps, as you suppose,
leave a gleam along my earthly track, whereby the pilgrims that shall
come after me may be guided to the regions of the blest,—I, who have
laid the hand of baptism upon your children,—I, who have breathed the
parting prayer over your dying friends, to whom the Amen sounded
faintly from a world which they had quitted,—I, your pastor, whom you
so reverence and trust, am utterly a pollution and a lie!”

More than once, Mr. (Length: 856 characters)
- PAGE

THE CUSTOM-HOUSE                                         1

THE PRISON DOOR                                         49

VIGNETTE,—WILD ROSE                                     51

THE GOSSIPS                                             57

“STANDING ON THE MISERABLE EMINENCE”                    65

“SHE WAS LED BACK TO PRISON”                            78

“THE EYES OF THE WRINKLED SCHOLAR GLOWED”               87

THE LONESOME DWELLING                                   93

LONELY FOOTSTEPS                                        99

VIGNETTE                                               104

A TOUCH OF PEARL’S BABY-HAND                           113

VIGNETTE                                               118

THE GOVERNOR’S BREASTPLATE                             125

“LOOK THOU TO IT! (Length: 831 characters)
- But there was time enough
yet for little Pearl.

“Come, my child!” said Hester, looking about her from the spot where
Pearl had stood still in the sunshine. “We will sit down a little way
within the wood, and rest ourselves.”

“I am not aweary, mother,” replied the little girl. “But you may sit
down, if you will tell me a story meanwhile.”

“A story, child!” said Hester. “And about what?”

“O, a story about the Black Man,” answered Pearl, taking hold of her
mother’s gown, and looking up, half earnestly, half mischievously,
into her face. “How he haunts this forest, and carries a book with
him,—a big, heavy book, with iron clasps; and how this ugly Black Man
offers his book and an iron pen to everybody that meets him here among
the trees; and they are to write their names with their own blood. (Length: 820 characters)
- Typos fixed:

    page 072—spelling normalized: changed ‘midday’ to ‘mid-day’
    page 132—inserted a missing closing quote after ‘a child of her age’
    page 137—spelling normalized: changed ‘careworn’ to ‘care-worn’
    page 147—typo fixed: changed ‘physican’ to ‘physician’
    page 171—typo fixed: changed ‘vocies’ to ‘voices’
    page 262—removed an extra closing quote after ‘scarlet letter too!’
    page 291—spelling normalized: changed ‘birdlike’ to ‘bird-like’
    page 300—typo fixed: changed ‘intruments’ to ‘instruments’
    page 306—spelling normalized: changed ‘deathlike’ to ‘death-like’





        
            *** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE SCARLET LETTER ***
        

    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed. (Length: 812 characters)
- What have they all come to do, here in the market-place?”

“They wait to see the procession pass,” said Hester. “For the Governor
and the magistrates are to go by, and the ministers, and all the great
people and good people, with the music and the soldiers marching
before them.”

“And will the minister be there?” asked Pearl. “And will he hold out
both his hands to me, as when thou ledst me to him from the
brook-side?”

“He will be there, child,” answered her mother. “But he will not greet
thee to-day; nor must thou greet him.”

“What a strange, sad man is he!” said the child, as if speaking partly
to herself. “In the dark night-time he calls us to him, and holds thy
hand and mine, as when we stood with him on the scaffold yonder. (Length: 756 characters)
- After my
fellowship of toil and impracticable schemes with the dreamy brethren
of Brook Farm; after living for three years within the subtile
influence of an intellect like Emerson’s; after those wild, free days
on the Assabeth, indulging fantastic speculations, beside our fire of
fallen boughs, with Ellery Channing; after talking with Thoreau about
pine-trees and Indian relics, in his hermitage at Walden; after
growing fastidious by sympathy with the classic refinement of
Hillard’s culture; after becoming imbued with poetic sentiment at
Longfellow’s hearthstone;—it was time, at length, that I should
exercise other faculties of my nature, and nourish myself with food
for which I had hitherto had little appetite. (Length: 732 characters)
