Title: The Romance of Lust: A classic Victorian erotic novel


Top 10 Shortest Sentences:
- Oh, dear! (Words: 2)
- Dear Miss Evelyn. (Words: 3)
- Benson’s Correspondence with Mrs. (Words: 4)
- About a month passed thus. (Words: 5)
- We instinctively learned to fear her. (Words: 6)
- She was, in truth, a seductive creature. (Words: 7)
- They were fully half an hour occupied together. (Words: 8)
- Meanwhile, her spirit was completely cowed, or rather, crushed. (Words: 9)
- My sisters and I all slept in the same room. (Words: 10)
- The moment she turned round, I was again as if asleep. (Words: 11)

Top 10 Longest Words:
- schoolmistresses (Length: 16 characters)
- indiscriminately (Length: 16 characters)
- unenforceability (Length: 16 characters)
- _attouchements_ (Length: 15 characters)
- Notwithstanding (Length: 15 characters)
- notwithstanding (Length: 15 characters)
- extraordinarily (Length: 15 characters)
- insubordination (Length: 15 characters)
- thoughtlessness (Length: 15 characters)
- dissatisfaction (Length: 15 characters)

Top 10 Most Common Letters:
- e (Occurrences: 102115)
- t (Occurrences: 72263)
- o (Occurrences: 62280)
- a (Occurrences: 61018)
- i (Occurrences: 58174)
- n (Occurrences: 55442)
- s (Occurrences: 51670)
- h (Occurrences: 48817)
- r (Occurrences: 47839)
- d (Occurrences: 38882)

Top 10 Most Common Words:
- the (Occurrences: 8134)
- and (Occurrences: 7236)
- to (Occurrences: 5866)
- of (Occurrences: 4648)
- i (Occurrences: 4637)
- her (Occurrences: 4357)
- my (Occurrences: 3461)
- in (Occurrences: 3287)
- a (Occurrences: 3038)
- was (Occurrences: 2668)
Top 10 Longest Sentences:
- Then, more full of passion than ever woman lover had ever been, and
enraptured as you listened to my voice, so completely beneath your sway,
listening only to your own love, you would raise your little coquettish
petticoat, and pressing dear little loves of calves more closely
together, for you could be on your knees, resting upon my little blue
veins, you would frig me in this manner, with greater vigour than ever
sitting down every now and then upon your fine little heels, in order
the better to release my beautiful prick, perfectly straight and rudely
swollen and inflamed with passionate desires, from between your divine
thighs, as soft as satin, and as white as snow, to better introduce the
wet tips of your lovely and velvet like bosoms into the seductive little
hole of my member, whilst my knees raised slightly behind would gently
caress your bottom, so as to give you some little satisfaction in your
turn; and at last, unable any longer to retard the moment of emission,
you would bend forward, resting upon both your hands, to increase my
desire, and keeping yourself back a little distance from me, while your
petticoats would now cover my head, and act almost like an electrical
conductor upon me, you would intoxicate me with the perfume exhaled from
your legs, from your member, from your cunt, from your bottom, and
lastly, you would slake my thirst and complete the celestial transport
by pissing, with eager rapture, between my burning lips some of that
woman’s nectar which you would alone possess, and which, emanating from
you alone in the world, is worthy of the gods. (Length: 1621 characters)
- She looked at me long and intently, blushing and
turning pale by turns.

“Yes, my dear boy, I could relieve you, but it is a secret that I hardly
dare confide in one so young.”

“Oh! you may trust me, my dear mamma, you know I am becoming a young
man, and men must know how to keep secrets, or they would be despised,
besides, so dear and loving a mamma as you are to me would doubly make
me keep secret anything you confide to me on those terms.”

“I will trust you, my darling boy, but you will at once see by what I
shall do, how completely I sacrifice myself to do you good.”

Upon this, she threw off her robe, and sprang into bed by my side.

“Oh! how nice of you, dear mamma,” said I, as I took her in my arms, and
kissed her lovingly. “Feel, mamma, how much harder it is, so tell me at
once how I am to relieve it.”

“Well, my dear child, we women are made to relieve such stiffnesses as
this; we possess a sheath to put it in, and then it gradually softens.”

“Oh! where—where—dearest mamma, do tell me?”

She took my hand and put it down on her cunt, already quite wet with the
excitement she had been in.

“There, feel that, do you not find an opening?”

“Oh, yes, but how am I to get in there—won’t it hurt you?”

“I will show you.”

She turned on her back, opened her legs, and desired me to mount on her
belly, with my legs between hers, then guiding my rampant pego, and
rubbing its great head up and down the lips to moisten it, she told me
to push gently downwards, for it was so large that I would otherwise
hurt her. (Length: 1573 characters)
- I comforted her in my
boyish way, and asked how it was that the effect should have been
different from anything she had previously experienced with me.

“Ah! my dear boy,” she said, with a deep sigh, “you have caused me such
extreme sensations that I fear you must have got me with child, you
seemed to penetrate my very womb, and to excite me far beyond anything I
ever previously remember.”

“My loved mamma, can I possibly get a child?”

“Get a child, indeed!” she replied. “Yes, a dozen, with such a great
monster of a cock, that so excites us poor women.”

I embraced her most tenderly, and said I was so happy to think I should
be the father of a child of hers.

“Alas! my dear boy, it may be joy to you, but what a sorrow it will be
to me if such should be the case; think how I should lose position in
the world if it should be known, and even if by going abroad I could
hide my shame from the public, still what shifts and contrivances I
should be put to to ensure secrecy; but never mind, my darling, I would
run twice such risk to enjoy your person, and secure your affection; you
must ever cherish and love me, my Charlie, for I risk good name and fame
for you; but now I must be gone, or we shall be sought for; try and
sleep a little, my dear boy, for I am sure you need it after your
exertions, and remember you must gain strength to renew them this
night.”

She kissed me lovingly, rose, put on her things and left me to repose. (Length: 1473 characters)
- The doctor’s gaze was fixed upon the stiff and rampant member of the
youth, watching the throbbings produced by every allusion to the
luscious scene of the day before.

“Now, come, tell me all about it,” said he, putting his arm round the
sobbing boy’s waist, and making him stand still closer beside him. “Was
she such a very pretty girl?”

Another throb of the rampant member.

“Yes, sir.”

“And you saw all her legs, thighs, plump little bottom, rosy pouting
little _slit_”—(_throb_—_throb_—_throb_)—“moist with the dew of
excitement and amorous play eh?”

The little machine seemed ready to burst at the thought of it.

“And did it have the same effect as I see it now has on _this?_ Dear me,
how naughty it is.”

And here the lecherous doctor took the rampant little cock in his hand
and pressed it.

“And what did she do to this, did she touch it so?” squeezing it gently.

“Yes, sir,” stammered out the youth, who was getting greatly excited.

“And so?” said the doctor, passing his hand gently and caressingly up
and down the stiffened and throbbing little cock.

“Yes, sir.”

“And so, too, I’ll be bound,” pushing back the foreskin off the head,
and as quickly replacing it, several times.

“Ye—es. (Length: 1243 characters)
- He used to continue long
at it, making me spend two or three times before he did, and then when
he felt it coming he used to withdraw, and his prick being all moist, he
would slip it into my bottom, and spend there as soon as ever he got the
head of it inside.”

“And did that give you any pleasure, mamma?”

“He had excited me, and made me spend several times before he did so;
and beyond slight irritation I did not feel much pleasure, as he was
generally so near the crisis that he could scarce do more than get its
head in when off he went.

“Did he ever get it in altogether—and then did it give you pleasure?”

“Sometimes he did when he had drawn it out of my cunt too soon; in such
cases he used to pause until by rubbing my clitoris he got me into a
renewed state of lewdness, and then the pleasure was peculiar and
great.”

“Oh, my dear, mamma, you must let me too fuck you in that way, and then
you know we shall get no children.”

“My darling Charlie, it is impossible that this great big thing could
ever get into that orifice, my late husband’s was not half your size,
and he had great difficulty unless I had already spent three or four
times and relaxed all those parts. (Length: 1211 characters)
- When I shall have undressed my adorable little mistress it will be nine
o’clock, she will be mad with desire, delirious from passion and
rapturous exactions (exigencies), her maddening look exciting me in the
highest degree will arouse all the strength I possess, and enable me to
exhaust her so completely that she herself will attain the height of
happiness; the greater the refinement and delicacy of my caresses the
greater will be your happiness, the more languishing will your eyes
become, the more will your pretty mouth unclose itself, the more will
your tongue become agitated, the more will your bosoms, firm and soft as
velvet, become distended, and their nipples grow large, red, and
appetizing; then will your arms grow weaker and then will your angelic
legs open themselves in a voluptuous manner, and then seeing ourselves
reflected on all sides in the mirrors, shall I take you in my arms in
order to excite you (_branler_, frig) with my hand, whilst your little
rosy fingers will similarly excite me with vigour, and I shall suck your
divine nipples with passion. (Length: 1095 characters)
- At first they
suspected Miss Frankland operating on herself, but the perfectly
untouched state of the rod proved that it was there in reserve only, and
had not yet been used.

“What a lucky chance,” cried my aunt. “I shall now be able to birch you
into something like a fit state to fuck me—and you shall birch me
afterwards, if it will only produce a second fuck, back or front,
whichever you like.”

“You are an angel, my darling wife, and I shall try to content both
orifices; it is an abominable shame that with such a gloriously made
magnificent woman as God has given me in your noble form, I should ever
require any other stimulant than a glance at your exquisitely exciting
proportions; but I suppose it is age that weakens our sensibilities.”

“You are right, my dear John, for I, who used to think your dear old
cock was enough for me, find I require the excitement of younger ones to
give me the real excess of pleasure my constitution demands; it would be
a shame if I did not humour all your little caprices, when you so
readily throw opportunities in my way. (Length: 1092 characters)
- Throwing
her right leg over me, while lying on her back, she heaved up her body
into a position half turned to my belly, I lying on my side; she then
bid me embrace her other thigh between mine, then guiding cockey to the
entrance, she gave a push backwards, to meet my forward thrust, when it
was instantly sheathed to the hilt.

“Now, my darling boy, in this way we can lengthen out our pleasures as
long as we please; you can make me spend oftener than yourself, which
will satisfy my very lustful nature, and not over exhaust your young
powers.”

Giving one or two delicious side wriggles to her bottom, and nestling
her backside close to my belly, she told me to pass my left arm under
her waist that I might embrace her left bubby and finger its nipple,
a proceeding which she told me was as exciting as playing with her
clitoris—then turning her head, our tongues interlaced; she put my
right hand down to her stiff-projecting clitoris, which I continued
to frig just as I might have done to a boy’s cock. (Length: 1030 characters)
- Poor Master Dale was, we know, quite in the dark as to what it could be,
or how it came there.

“Has this ever occurred to you before,” asked the doctor.

“Yes, sir, yesterday, when my cousin was caressing it in her mouth,”
replied the frightened youth, “but I really don’t know how it happened,
and did not mean any harm.”

“Oh, indeed!” said the doctor, “your mother did not mention that, did
she see you?”

“No, sir, it happened just as she was coming through the shrubbery, and
was all over before she reached the arbour.”

“And so your cousin took it into her mouth, why did she do that?”

“She was curious to see what was under the skin of its head, and finding
it would not go back without hurting me, she put it into her mouth to
wet it and make it go back easier, which it did for the first time; she
pulled it forward again, and again put it into her mouth to push the
skin back with her lips, when I felt funny all over, and something came
out of me into her mouth.”

“Indeed! (Length: 1011 characters)
- When the agitation of your little legs, of
your lovely little bottom (_derrière_), of your head, and those murmurs
of pleasure (_rugissements_) prove to me that you are at the point of
emission, I shall stop and carry you to a piece of furniture made to
sustain your head, your back, your bottom, and your legs, and having
near your cunt (_con_) an opening sufficiently wide to allow my body to
pass erect between your legs; then shall I fuck (_enfiler_) you with
frenzy with my enormous and long member, which will penetrate to the
mouth of your womb; being squeezed by your pretty legs, which will bring
me closer to you, I shall wriggle (_remuerai_) my strong pretty member,
which you love, with more vigour than ever; my private parts (_organes
mâles_, testicles) will touch your little bottom, and this contact will
provoke such an abundant flow of the essence of love in your little cunt
that I shall be as if I were in a bath. (Length: 946 characters)
