Title: Thus Spake Zarathustra: A Book for All and None


Top 10 Shortest Sentences:
- FIRST PART. (Words: 2)
- THUS SPAKE ZARATHUSTRA. (Words: 3)
- INTRODUCTION BY MRS FORSTER-NIETZSCHE. (Words: 4)
- The Academic Chairs of Virtue. (Words: 5)
- The Way of the Creating One. (Words: 6)
- Goeth he not along like a dancer? (Words: 7)
- Notes on “Thus Spake Zarathustra” by Anthony M. (Words: 8)
- Now I love God: men, I do not love. (Words: 9)
- On every simile dost thou here ride to every truth. (Words: 10)
- The fall of our footsteps ringeth too hollow through their streets. (Words: 11)

Top 10 Longest Words:
- straightforwardness (Length: 19 characters)
- misinterpretations (Length: 18 characters)
- conscientiousness (Length: 17 characters)
- misunderstandings (Length: 17 characters)
- autobiographical (Length: 16 characters)
- presumptuousness (Length: 16 characters)
- congratulatingly (Length: 16 characters)
- indispensability (Length: 16 characters)
- misunderstanding (Length: 16 characters)
- unenforceability (Length: 16 characters)

Top 10 Most Common Letters:
- e (Occurrences: 64616)
- t (Occurrences: 50192)
- a (Occurrences: 39513)
- o (Occurrences: 38278)
- h (Occurrences: 36250)
- i (Occurrences: 34429)
- n (Occurrences: 33631)
- s (Occurrences: 32727)
- r (Occurrences: 28718)
- l (Occurrences: 22401)

Top 10 Most Common Words:
- the (Occurrences: 6132)
- and (Occurrences: 4701)
- of (Occurrences: 2910)
- to (Occurrences: 2793)
- a (Occurrences: 1850)
- is (Occurrences: 1841)
- i (Occurrences: 1816)
- in (Occurrences: 1555)
- it (Occurrences: 1531)
- that (Occurrences: 1364)
Top 10 Longest Sentences:
- He whose soul
longeth to experience the whole range of hitherto recognised values
and desirabilities, and to circumnavigate all the coasts of this ideal
‘Mediterranean Sea’, who, from the adventures of his most personal
experience, wants to know how it feels to be a conqueror, and discoverer
of the ideal—as likewise how it is with the artist, the saint, the
legislator, the sage, the scholar, the devotee, the prophet, and the
godly non-conformist of the old style:—requires one thing above all
for that purpose, GREAT HEALTHINESS—such healthiness as one not only
possesses, but also constantly acquires and must acquire, because one
unceasingly sacrifices it again, and must sacrifice it!—And now, after
having been long on the way in this fashion, we Argonauts of the ideal,
more courageous perhaps than prudent, and often enough shipwrecked
and brought to grief, nevertheless dangerously healthy, always healthy
again,—it would seem as if, in recompense for it all, that we have a
still undiscovered country before us, the boundaries of which no one
has yet seen, a beyond to all countries and corners of the ideal known
hitherto, a world so over-rich in the beautiful, the strange, the
questionable, the frightful, and the divine, that our curiosity as well
as our thirst for possession thereof, have got out of hand—alas! that
nothing will now any longer satisfy us!—

“How could we still be content with THE MAN OF THE PRESENT DAY
after such outlooks, and with such a craving in our conscience and
consciousness? (Length: 1544 characters)
- Another ideal runs on before us, a strange, tempting ideal full of
danger, to which we should not like to persuade any one, because we
do not so readily acknowledge any one’s RIGHT THERETO: the ideal of
a spirit who plays naively (that is to say involuntarily and from
overflowing abundance and power) with everything that has hitherto
been called holy, good, intangible, or divine; to whom the loftiest
conception which the people have reasonably made their measure of value,
would already practically imply danger, ruin, abasement, or at least
relaxation, blindness, or temporary self-forgetfulness; the ideal of
a humanly superhuman welfare and benevolence, which will often enough
appear INHUMAN, for example, when put alongside of all past seriousness
on earth, and alongside of all past solemnities in bearing, word, tone,
look, morality, and pursuit, as their truest involuntary parody—and
WITH which, nevertheless, perhaps THE GREAT SERIOUSNESS only commences,
when the proper interrogative mark is set up, the fate of the soul
changes, the hour-hand moves, and tragedy begins...”

Although the figure of Zarathustra and a large number of the leading
thoughts in this work had appeared much earlier in the dreams and
writings of the author, “Thus Spake Zarathustra” did not actually come
into being until the month of August 1881 in Sils Maria; and it was the
idea of the Eternal Recurrence of all things which finally induced my
brother to set forth his new views in poetic language. (Length: 1514 characters)
- Not still, stiff, smooth and cold,
     Become an image,
     A godlike statue,
     Set up in front of temples,
     As a God’s own door-guard:
     Nay! hostile to all such truthfulness-statues,
     In every desert homelier than at temples,
     With cattish wantonness,
     Through every window leaping
     Quickly into chances,
     Every wild forest a-sniffing,
     Greedily-longingly, sniffing,
     That thou, in wild forests,
     ’Mong the motley-speckled fierce creatures,
     Shouldest rove, sinful-sound and fine-coloured,
     With longing lips smacking,
     Blessedly mocking, blessedly hellish, blessedly bloodthirsty,
     Robbing, skulking, lying—roving:—

     Or unto eagles like which fixedly,
     Long adown the precipice look,
     Adown THEIR precipice:—
     Oh, how they whirl down now,
     Thereunder, therein,
     To ever deeper profoundness whirling!—
     Then,
     Sudden,
     With aim aright,
     With quivering flight,
     On LAMBKINS pouncing,
     Headlong down, sore-hungry,
     For lambkins longing,
     Fierce ’gainst all lamb-spirits,
     Furious-fierce ’gainst all that look
     Sheeplike, or lambeyed, or crisp-woolly,
     —Grey, with lambsheep kindliness! (Length: 1249 characters)
- And oft did it carry me off and up and away and in the midst of
laughter; then flew I quivering like an arrow with sun-intoxicated
rapture:

—Out into distant futures, which no dream hath yet seen, into warmer
souths than ever sculptor conceived,—where gods in their dancing are
ashamed of all clothes:

(That I may speak in parables and halt and stammer like the poets: and
verily I am ashamed that I have still to be a poet!)

Where all becoming seemed to me dancing of Gods, and wantoning of Gods,
and the world unloosed and unbridled and fleeing back to itself:—

—As an eternal self-fleeing and re-seeking of one another of many Gods,
as the blessed self-contradicting, recommuning, and refraternising with
one another of many Gods:—

Where all time seemed to me a blessed mockery of moments, where
necessity was freedom itself, which played happily with the goad of
freedom:—

Where I also found again mine old devil and arch-enemy, the spirit
of gravity, and all that it created: constraint, law, necessity and
consequence and purpose and will and good and evil:—

For must there not be that which is danced OVER, danced beyond? (Length: 1161 characters)
- There can be no doubt that
the value of healthy innocent voluptuousness, like the value of health
itself, must have been greatly discounted by all those who, resenting
their inability to partake of this world’s goods, cried like St Paul:
“I would that all men were even as I myself.” Now Nietzsche’s philosophy
might be called an attempt at giving back to healthy and normal men
innocence and a clean conscience in their desires—NOT to applaud the
vulgar sensualists who respond to every stimulus and whose passions are
out of hand; not to tell the mean, selfish individual, whose selfishness
is a pollution (see Aphorism 33, “Twilight of the Idols”), that he is
right, nor to assure the weak, the sick, and the crippled, that the
thirst of power, which they gratify by exploiting the happier and
healthier individuals, is justified;—but to save the clean healthy man
from the values of those around him, who look at everything through the
mud that is in their own bodies,—to give him, and him alone, a clean
conscience in his manhood and the desires of his manhood. “Do I counsel
you to slay your instincts? (Length: 1124 characters)
- Eat and drink also with me to-day, and forgive it that a cheerful old
man sitteth with thee at table!”—“A cheerful old man?” answered the
soothsayer, shaking his head, “but whoever thou art, or wouldst be, O
Zarathustra, thou hast been here aloft the longest time,—in a little
while thy bark shall no longer rest on dry land!”—“Do I then rest
on dry land?”—asked Zarathustra, laughing.—“The waves around thy
mountain,” answered the soothsayer, “rise and rise, the waves of great
distress and affliction: they will soon raise thy bark also and carry
thee away.”—Thereupon was Zarathustra silent and wondered.—“Dost thou
still hear nothing?” continued the soothsayer: “doth it not rush and
roar out of the depth?”—Zarathustra was silent once more and listened:
then heard he a long, long cry, which the abysses threw to one another
and passed on; for none of them wished to retain it: so evil did it
sound.

“Thou ill announcer,” said Zarathustra at last, “that is a cry of
distress, and the cry of a man; it may come perhaps out of a black sea. (Length: 1059 characters)
- In the fourteenth verse of this discourse Nietzsche defines the solemn
duty he imposed upon himself: “Become what thou art.” Surely the
criticism which has been directed against this maxim must all fall to
the ground when it is remembered, once and for all, that Nietzsche’s
teaching was never intended to be other than an esoteric one. “I am a
law only for mine own,” he says emphatically, “I am not a law for
all.” It is of the greatest importance to humanity that its highest
individuals should be allowed to attain to their full development; for,
only by means of its heroes can the human race be led forward step by
step to higher and yet higher levels. “Become what thou art” applied
to all, of course, becomes a vicious maxim; it is to be hoped, however,
that we may learn in time that the same action performed by a given
number of men, loses its identity precisely that same number of
times.—“Quod licet Jovi, non licet bovi.”

At the last eight verses many readers may be tempted to laugh. (Length: 1014 characters)
- Verily, my brother, if thou knewest but a people’s need, its land,
its sky, and its neighbour, then wouldst thou divine the law of its
surmountings, and why it climbeth up that ladder to its hope.

“Always shalt thou be the foremost and prominent above others: no one
shall thy jealous soul love, except a friend”—that made the soul of a
Greek thrill: thereby went he his way to greatness.

“To speak truth, and be skilful with bow and arrow”—so seemed it alike
pleasing and hard to the people from whom cometh my name—the name which
is alike pleasing and hard to me.

“To honour father and mother, and from the root of the soul to do their
will”—this table of surmounting hung another people over them, and
became powerful and permanent thereby.

“To have fidelity, and for the sake of fidelity to risk honour and
blood, even in evil and dangerous courses”—teaching itself so, another
people mastered itself, and thus mastering itself, became pregnant and
heavy with great hopes. (Length: 999 characters)
- For it saith: “Where
force is, there becometh NUMBER the master: it hath more force.”

How confidently did my dream contemplate this finite world, not
new-fangledly, not old-fangledly, not timidly, not entreatingly:—

—As if a big round apple presented itself to my hand, a ripe golden
apple, with a coolly-soft, velvety skin:—thus did the world present
itself unto me:—

—As if a tree nodded unto me, a broad-branched, strong-willed tree,
curved as a recline and a foot-stool for weary travellers: thus did the
world stand on my promontory:—

—As if delicate hands carried a casket towards me—a casket open for
the delectation of modest adoring eyes: thus did the world present
itself before me to-day:—

—Not riddle enough to scare human love from it, not solution enough
to put to sleep human wisdom:—a humanly good thing was the world to me
to-day, of which such bad things are said! (Length: 907 characters)
- Among the notes of this period, we
found a page on which is written the first definite plan of “Thus Spake
Zarathustra”:—

“MIDDAY AND ETERNITY.”

“GUIDE-POSTS TO A NEW WAY OF LIVING.”

Beneath this is written:—

“Zarathustra born on lake Urmi; left his home in his thirtieth year,
went into the province of Aria, and, during ten years of solitude in the
mountains, composed the Zend-Avesta.”

“The sun of knowledge stands once more at midday; and the serpent
of eternity lies coiled in its light—: It is YOUR time, ye midday
brethren.”

In that summer of 1881, my brother, after many years of steadily
declining health, began at last to rally, and it is to this first gush
of the recovery of his once splendid bodily condition that we owe not
only “The Gay Science”, which in its mood may be regarded as a prelude
to “Zarathustra”, but also “Zarathustra” itself. (Length: 885 characters)
