Title: Treasure Island


Top 10 Shortest Sentences:
- Ah, well! (Words: 2)
- I told you. (Words: 3)
- Dooty is dooty, messmates. (Words: 4)
- What you mought call me? (Words: 5)
- Between us we raised his head. (Words: 6)
- The doctor never so much as moved. (Words: 7)
- He was a very silent man by custom. (Words: 8)
- His stories were what frightened people worst of all. (Words: 9)
- The man has had a stroke, as I warned him. (Words: 10)
- It drew nearer and nearer, while we sat holding our breath. (Words: 11)

Top 10 Longest Words:
- incomprehensible (Length: 16 characters)
- unenforceability (Length: 16 characters)
- bloodthirstiest (Length: 15 characters)
- miscalculations (Length: 15 characters)
- representations (Length: 15 characters)
- MERCHANTABILITY (Length: 15 characters)
- unintelligible (Length: 14 characters)
- recommendation (Length: 14 characters)
- superintending (Length: 14 characters)
- simultaneously (Length: 14 characters)

Top 10 Most Common Letters:
- e (Occurrences: 35157)
- t (Occurrences: 26381)
- a (Occurrences: 24677)
- o (Occurrences: 22997)
- n (Occurrences: 20164)
- i (Occurrences: 18847)
- h (Occurrences: 18573)
- s (Occurrences: 17632)
- r (Occurrences: 16392)
- d (Occurrences: 14178)

Top 10 Most Common Words:
- the (Occurrences: 4600)
- and (Occurrences: 2955)
- i (Occurrences: 1968)
- a (Occurrences: 1814)
- of (Occurrences: 1807)
- to (Occurrences: 1607)
- was (Occurrences: 1138)
- you (Occurrences: 1048)
- in (Occurrences: 1034)
- he (Occurrences: 938)
Top 10 Longest Sentences:
- He called them all the fools and dolts
you can imagine, said it was necessary I should talk to the doctor,
fluttered the chart in their faces, asked them if they could afford to
break the treaty the very day they were bound a-treasure-hunting.

“No, by thunder!” he cried. “It’s us must break the treaty when the time
comes; and till then I’ll gammon that doctor, if I have to ile his boots
with brandy.”

And then he bade them get the fire lit, and stalked out upon his crutch,
with his hand on my shoulder, leaving them in a disarray, and silenced
by his volubility rather than convinced.

“Slow, lad, slow,” he said. “They might round upon us in a twinkle of an
eye if we was seen to hurry.”

Very deliberately, then, did we advance across the sand to where the
doctor awaited us on the other side of the stockade, and as soon as we
were within easy speaking distance Silver stopped.

“You’ll make a note of this here also, doctor,” says he, “and the boy’ll
tell you how I saved his life, and were deposed for it too, and you
may lay to that. (Length: 1067 characters)
- When the doctor had wormed this secret from him on the afternoon of the
attack, and when next morning he saw the anchorage deserted, he had gone
to Silver, given him the chart, which was now useless--given him the
stores, for Ben Gunn’s cave was well supplied with goats’ meat salted
by himself--given anything and everything to get a chance of moving in
safety from the stockade to the two-pointed hill, there to be clear of
malaria and keep a guard upon the money.

“As for you, Jim,” he said, “it went against my heart, but I did what I
thought best for those who had stood by their duty; and if you were not
one of these, whose fault was it?”

That morning, finding that I was to be involved in the horrid
disappointment he had prepared for the mutineers, he had run all the way
to the cave, and leaving the squire to guard the captain, had taken Gray
and the maroon and started, making the diagonal across the island to be
at hand beside the pine. (Length: 968 characters)
- I’ll help you to your bed for once.”

Between us, with much trouble, we managed to hoist him upstairs, and
laid him on his bed, where his head fell back on the pillow as if he
were almost fainting.

“Now, mind you,” said the doctor, “I clear my conscience--the name of
rum for you is death.”

And with that he went off to see my father, taking me with him by the
arm.

“This is nothing,” he said as soon as he had closed the door. “I have
drawn blood enough to keep him quiet awhile; he should lie for a week
where he is--that is the best thing for him and you; but another stroke
would settle him.”




3

The Black Spot

ABOUT noon I stopped at the captain’s door with some cooling drinks
and medicines. (Length: 730 characters)
- INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause. (Length: 685 characters)
- I will do as you
desire, but I think the worse of you.”

“That’s as you please, sir,” said the captain. “You’ll find I do my
duty.”

And with that he took his leave.

“Trelawney,” said the doctor, “contrary to all my notions, I believed
you have managed to get two honest men on board with you--that man and
John Silver.”

“Silver, if you like,” cried the squire; “but as for that intolerable
humbug, I declare I think his conduct unmanly, unsailorly, and downright
un-English.”

“Well,” says the doctor, “we shall see.”

When we came on deck, the men had begun already to take out the arms and
powder, yo-ho-ing at their work, while the captain and Mr. (Length: 672 characters)
- And talking o’ trouble, why did that doctor give me the
chart, Jim?”

My face expressed a wonder so unaffected that he saw the needlessness of
further questions.

“Ah, well, he did, though,” said he. “And there’s something under that,
no doubt--something, surely, under that, Jim--bad or good.”

And he took another swallow of the brandy, shaking his great fair head
like a man who looks forward to the worst.




29

The Black Spot Again

THE council of buccaneers had lasted some time, when one of them
re-entered the house, and with a repetition of the same salute, which
had in my eyes an ironical air, begged for a moment’s loan of the torch. (Length: 668 characters)
- It was about nine
miles long and five across, shaped, you might say, like a fat dragon
standing up, and had two fine land-locked harbours, and a hill in the
centre part marked “The Spy-glass.” There were several additions of a
later date, but above all, three crosses of red ink--two on the north
part of the island, one in the southwest--and beside this last, in
the same red ink, and in a small, neat hand, very different from the
captain’s tottery characters, these words: “Bulk of treasure here.”

Over on the back the same hand had written this further information:

     Tall tree, Spy-glass shoulder, bearing a point to
     the N. of N.N.E. (Length: 660 characters)
- I might have been twice
as weary, yet I would not have left the deck, all was so new and
interesting to me--the brief commands, the shrill note of the whistle,
the men bustling to their places in the glimmer of the ship’s lanterns.

“Now, Barbecue, tip us a stave,” cried one voice.

“The old one,” cried another.

“Aye, aye, mates,” said Long John, who was standing by, with his crutch
under his arm, and at once broke out in the air and words I knew so
well:

“Fifteen men on the dead man’s chest--”

And then the whole crew bore chorus:--

“Yo-ho-ho, and a bottle of rum!”

And at the third “Ho!” drove the bars before them with a will. (Length: 658 characters)
- Silver,”
 I said, “I believe you’re the best man here, and if things go to the
worst, I’ll take it kind of you to let the doctor know the way I took
it.”

“I’ll bear it in mind,” said Silver with an accent so curious that I
could not, for the life of me, decide whether he were laughing at my
request or had been favourably affected by my courage.

“I’ll put one to that,” cried the old mahogany-faced seaman--Morgan
by name--whom I had seen in Long John’s public-house upon the quays of
Bristol. “It was him that knowed Black Dog.”

“Well, and see here,” added the sea-cook. “I’ll put another again to
that, by thunder! (Length: 634 characters)
- I could just make out that he
had a book as well as a knife in his hand, and was still wondering how
anything so incongruous had come in their possession when the kneeling
figure rose once more to his feet and the whole party began to move
together towards the house.

“Here they come,” said I; and I returned to my former position, for it
seemed beneath my dignity that they should find me watching them.

“Well, let ’em come, lad--let ’em come,” said Silver cheerily. “I’ve
still a shot in my locker.”

The door opened, and the five men, standing huddled together just
inside, pushed one of their number forward. (Length: 627 characters)
