Title: Twenty years after


Top 10 Shortest Sentences:
- Chapter II. (Words: 2)
- A Nightly Patrol. (Words: 3)
- The Castle of Bragelonne. (Words: 4)
- The Shade of Cardinal Richelieu. (Words: 5)
- Wealth does not necessarily produce Happiness. (Words: 6)
- The timely Arrival of D’Artagnan in Paris. (Words: 7)
- Anne of Austria at the Age of Forty-six. (Words: 8)
- Touches upon the Strange Effects a Half-pistole may have. (Words: 9)
- Pâtés made by the Successor of Father Marteau are described. (Words: 10)
- Difficult for Kings to return to the Capitals of their Kingdoms. (Words: 11)

Top 10 Longest Words:
- disinterestedness (Length: 17 characters)
- plenipotentiaries (Length: 17 characters)
- indiscriminately (Length: 16 characters)
- insurrectionists (Length: 16 characters)
- incorruptibility (Length: 16 characters)
- inextinguishable (Length: 16 characters)
- incomprehensible (Length: 16 characters)
- parliamentarians (Length: 16 characters)
- indemnifications (Length: 16 characters)
- unenforceability (Length: 16 characters)

Top 10 Most Common Letters:
- e (Occurrences: 132304)
- t (Occurrences: 94847)
- a (Occurrences: 89787)
- o (Occurrences: 83124)
- n (Occurrences: 73183)
- i (Occurrences: 72555)
- h (Occurrences: 67764)
- s (Occurrences: 65706)
- r (Occurrences: 63870)
- d (Occurrences: 49872)

Top 10 Most Common Words:
- the (Occurrences: 14535)
- to (Occurrences: 7473)
- and (Occurrences: 6428)
- of (Occurrences: 6220)
- a (Occurrences: 4824)
- i (Occurrences: 4137)
- you (Occurrences: 4116)
- he (Occurrences: 3688)
- in (Occurrences: 3602)
- that (Occurrences: 3347)
Top 10 Longest Sentences:
- They
had the misfortune to be devoted to that very queen for whom just now
you were seeking servants.”

“But how is it that you know so much of these matters?”

“I know them because the men of whom I speak were at that time my
enemies; because they fought against me; because I did them all the
harm I could and they returned it to the best of their ability; because
one of them, with whom I had most to do, gave me a pretty sword-thrust,
now about seven years ago, the third that I received from the same
hand; it closed an old account.”

“Ah!” said Mazarin, with admirable suavity, “could I but find such
men!”

“My lord, there has stood for six years at your very door a man such as
I describe, and during those six years he has been unappreciated and
unemployed by you.”

“Who is it?”

“It is Monsieur d’Artagnan.”

“That Gascon!” cried Mazarin, with well acted surprise.

“‘That Gascon’ has saved a queen and made Monsieur de Richelieu confess
that in point of talent, address and political skill, to him he was
only a tyro.”

“Really?”

“It is as I have the honor of telling it to your excellency.”

“Tell me a little about it, my dear Monsieur de Rochefort.”

“That is somewhat difficult, my lord,” said Rochefort, with a smile.

“Then he will tell it me himself.”

“I doubt it, my lord.”

“Why do you doubt it?”

“Because the secret does not belong to him; because, as I have told
you, it has to do with a great queen.”

“And he was alone in achieving an enterprise like that?”

“No, my lord, he had three colleagues, three brave men, men such as you
were wishing for just now.”

“And were these four men attached to each other, true in heart, really
united?”

“As if they had been one man—as if their four hearts had pulsated in
one breast.”

“You pique my curiosity, dear Rochefort; pray tell me the whole story.”

“That is impossible; but I will tell you a true story, my lord.”

“Pray do so, I delight in stories,” cried the cardinal.

“Listen, then,” returned Rochefort, as he spoke endeavoring to read in
that subtle countenance the cardinal’s motive. “Once upon a time there
lived a queen—a powerful monarch—who reigned over one of the greatest
kingdoms of the universe; and a minister; and this minister wished much
to injure the queen, whom once he had loved too well. (Do not try, my
lord, you cannot guess who it is; all this happened long before you
came into the country where this queen reigned.) There came to the
court an ambassador so brave, so magnificent, so elegant, that every
woman lost her heart to him; and the queen had even the indiscretion to
give him certain ornaments so rare that they could never be replaced by
any like them.

“As these ornaments were given by the king the minister persuaded his
majesty to insist upon the queen’s appearing in them as part of her
jewels at a ball which was soon to take place. (Length: 2928 characters)
- At last their hilarity calmed down and:

“Faith!” exclaimed D’Artagnan to the two friends, “you may well wish
ill to Mazarin; for I assure you, on his side he wishes you no good.”

“Pooh! really?” asked Athos. “If I thought the fellow knew me by my
name I would be rebaptized, for fear it might be thought I knew him.”

“He knows you better by your actions than your name; he is quite aware
that there are two gentlemen who greatly aided the escape of Monsieur
de Beaufort, and he has instigated an active search for them, I can
answer for it.”

“By whom?”

“By me; and this morning he sent for me to ask me if I had obtained any
information.”

“And what did you reply?”

“That I had none as yet; but that I was to dine to-day with two
gentlemen, who would be able to give me some.”

“You told him that?” said Porthos, a broad smile spreading over his
honest face. “Bravo! and you are not afraid of that, Athos?”

“No,” replied Athos, “it is not the search of Mazarin that I fear.”

“Now,” said Aramis, “tell me a little what you do fear.”

“Nothing for the present; at least, nothing in good earnest.”

“And with regard to the past?” asked Porthos.

“Oh! the past is another thing,” said Athos, sighing; “the past and the
future.”

“Are you afraid for your young Raoul?” asked Aramis.

“Well,” said D’Artagnan, “one is never killed in a first engagement.”

“Nor in the second,” said Aramis

“Nor in the third,” returned Porthos; “and even when one is killed, one
rises again, the proof of which is, that here we are!”

“No,” said Athos, “it is not Raoul about whom I am anxious, for I trust
he will conduct himself like a gentleman; and if he is killed—well, he
will die bravely; but hold—should such a misfortune happen—well—” Athos
passed his hand across his pale brow.

“Well?” asked Aramis.

“Well, I shall look upon it as an expiation.”

“Ah!” said D’Artagnan; “I know what you mean.”

“And I, too,” added Aramis; “but you must not think of that, Athos;
what is past, is past.”

“I don’t understand,” said Porthos.

“The affair at Armentieres,” whispered D’Artagnan.

“The affair at Armentieres?” asked he again.

“Milady.”

“Oh, yes!” said Porthos; “true, I had forgotten it!”

Athos looked at him intently.

“You have forgotten it, Porthos?” said he.

“Faith! yes, it is so long ago,” answered Porthos.

“This affair does not, then, weigh upon your conscience?”

“Faith, no.”

“And you, D’Artagnan?”

“I—I own that when my mind returns to that terrible period I have no
recollection of anything but the rigid corpse of poor Madame
Bonancieux. (Length: 2634 characters)
- Speak.”

“He who has negotiated these matters (forgive me if I begin by speaking
of myself, but I must claim that importance which has been given to me,
not assumed by me) he who has arranged matters for the return of the
cardinal, ought, it appears to me, in order that his reward may not be
unworthy of your majesty, to be made commandant of the guards—an
appointment something like that of captain of the musketeers.”

“’Tis the appointment Monsieur de Tréville held, you ask of me.”

“The place, madame, is vacant, and although ’tis a year since Monsieur
de Tréville has left it, it has not been filled.”

“But it is one of the principal military appointments in the king’s
household.”

“Monsieur de Tréville was but a younger son of a simple Gascon family,
like me, madame; he occupied that post for twenty years.”

“You have an answer ready for everything,” replied the queen, and she
took from her bureau a document, which she filled up and signed.

“Undoubtedly, madame,” said D’Artagnan, taking the document and bowing,
“this is a noble reward; but everything in the world is unstable, and
the man who happened to fall into disgrace with your majesty might lose
this office to-morrow.”

“What more do you want?” asked the queen, coloring, as she found that
she had to deal with a mind as subtle as her own.

“A hundred thousand francs for this poor captain of musketeers, to be
paid whenever his services shall no longer be acceptable to your
majesty.”

Anne hesitated.

“To think of the Parisians,” soliloquized D’Artagnan, “offering only
the other day, by an edict of the parliament, six hundred thousand
francs to any man soever who would deliver up the cardinal to them,
dead or alive—if alive, in order to hang him; if dead, to deny him the
rites of Christian burial!”

“Come,” said Anne, “’tis reasonable, since you only ask from a queen
the sixth of what the parliament has proposed;” and she signed an order
for a hundred thousand francs.

“Now, then,” she said, “what next?”

“Madame, my friend Du Vallon is rich and has therefore nothing in the
way of fortune to desire; but I think I remember that there was a
question between him and Monsieur Mazarin as to making his estate a
barony. (Length: 2257 characters)
- Do you wish a step, or some
place in the government?”

“Sir, will you grant me my request?”

“Let us hear what it is, first.”

“Sir, when you have told me to obey an order did I ever answer, ‘Let me
see that order’?”

“If, however, your wish should be one impossible to fulfill?”

“When you have cherished a wish and have charged me with its
fulfillment, have I ever replied, ‘It is impossible’?”

“But a request preferred with so much preparation——”

“Ah, do not fear, sir,” said Mordaunt, with apparent simplicity: “it
will not ruin you.”

“Well, then,” said Cromwell, “I promise, as far as lies in my power, to
grant your request; proceed.”

“Sir, two prisoners were taken this morning, will you let me have
them?”

“For their ransom? have they then offered a large one?” inquired
Cromwell.

“On the contrary, I think they are poor, sir.”

“They are friends of yours, then?”

“Yes, sir,” exclaimed Mordaunt, “they are friends, dear friends of
mine, and I would lay down my life for them.”

“Very well, Mordaunt,” exclaimed Cromwell, pleased at having his
opinion of the young man raised once more; “I will give them to you; I
will not even ask who they are; do as you like with them.”

“Thank you, sir!” exclaimed Mordaunt, “thank you; my life is always at
your service, and should I lose it I should still owe you something;
thank you; you have indeed repaid me munificently for my services.”

He threw himself at the feet of Cromwell, and in spite of the efforts
of the Puritan general, who did not like this almost kingly homage, he
took his hand and kissed it.

“What!” said Cromwell, arresting him for a moment as he arose; “is
there nothing more you wish? neither gold nor rank?”

“You have given me all you can give me, and from to-day your debt is
paid.”

And Mordaunt darted out of the general’s tent, his heart beating and
his eyes sparkling with joy. (Length: 1919 characters)
- Planchet—art thou there?” cried Mousqueton,
with open arms and eyes full of tears.

“My very self,” replied Planchet; “but I wanted first to see if thou
wert grown proud.”

“Proud toward an old friend? never, Planchet! thou wouldst not have
thought so hadst thou known Mousqueton well.”

“So far so well,” answered Planchet, alighting, and extending his arms
to Mousqueton, the two servants embraced with an emotion which touched
those who were present and made them suppose that Planchet was a great
lord in disguise, so highly did they estimate the position of
Mousqueton.

“And now, sir,” resumed Mousqueton, when he had rid himself of
Planchet, who had in vain tried to clasp his hands behind his friend’s
fat back, “now, sir, allow me to leave you, for I could not permit my
master to hear of your arrival from any but myself; he would never
forgive me for not having preceded you.”

“This dear friend,” said D’Artagnan, carefully avoiding to utter either
the former name borne by Porthos or his new one, “then he has not
forgotten me?”

“Forgotten—he!” cried Mousqueton; “there’s not a day, sir, that we
don’t expect to hear that you were made marshal either instead of
Monsieur de Gassion, or of Monsieur de Bassompierre.”

On D’Artagnan’s lips there played one of those rare and melancholy
smiles which seemed to emanate from the depth of his soul—the last
trace of youth and happiness that had survived life’s disillusions.

“And you—fellows,” resumed Mousqueton, “stay near Monsieur le Comte
d’Artagnan and pay him every attention in your power whilst I go to
prepare my lord for his visit.”

And mounting his horse Mousqueton rode off down the avenue on the grass
at a hand gallop.

“Ah, there! there’s something promising,” said D’Artagnan. “No
mysteries, no cloak to hide one’s self in, no cunning policy here;
people laugh outright, they weep for joy here. (Length: 1912 characters)
- As
for the remission of your sins, we have the archbishop of Paris, who
has the very greatest power at the court of Rome, and even the
coadjutor, who possesses some plenary indulgences; we will recommend
you to him.”

“Consider, Maillard,” said the curate, “that I have recommended you to
this gentleman, who is a powerful lord, and that I have made myself
responsible for you.”

“I know, monsieur le curé,” said the beggar, “that you have always been
very kind to me, and therefore I, in my turn, will be serviceable to
you.”

“And do you think your power as great with the fraternity as monsieur
le curé told me it was just now?”

“I think they have some esteem for me,” said the mendicant with pride,
“and that not only will they obey me, but wherever I go they will
follow me.”

“And could you count on fifty resolute men, good, unemployed, but
active souls, brawlers, capable of bringing down the walls of the
Palais Royal by crying, ‘Down with Mazarin,’ as fell those at Jericho?”

“I think,” said the beggar, “I can undertake things more difficult and
more important than that.”

“Ah, ah,” said Gondy, “you will undertake, then, some night, to throw
up some ten barricades?”

“I will undertake to throw up fifty, and when the day comes, to defend
them.”

“I’faith!” exclaimed Gondy, “you speak with a certainty that gives me
pleasure; and since monsieur le curé can answer for you——”

“I answer for him,” said the curate.

“Here is a bag containing five hundred pistoles in gold; make all your
arrangements, and tell me where I shall be able to find you this
evening at ten o’clock.”

“It must be on some elevated place, whence a given signal may be seen
in every part of Paris.”

“Shall I give you a line for the vicar of St. (Length: 1779 characters)
- He took them up, just as he
formerly used to take up the stones from the road, and threw them out
of the house.”

“Neat,” remarked D’Artagnan. “Very!”

“And all these one hundred and ninety-one were Royalists?” asked Athos.

“Without doubt, senor; and you understand that they would have saved
the king.”

“To be sure,” said Porthos, with majestic common sense; “they were in
the majority.”

“And you think,” said Aramis, “he will consent to appear before such a
tribunal?”

“He will be forced to do so,” smiled the Spaniard.

“Now, Athos!” said D’Artagnan, “do you begin to believe that it’s a
ruined cause, and that what with your Harrisons, Joyces, Bridges and
Cromwells, we shall never get the upper hand?”

“The king will be delivered at the tribunal,” said Athos; “the very
silence of his supporters indicates that they are at work.”

D’Artagnan shrugged his shoulders.

“But,” said Aramis, “if they dare to condemn their king, it can only be
to exile or imprisonment.”

D’Artagnan whistled a little air of incredulity.

“We shall see,” said Athos, “for we shall go to the sittings, I
presume.”

“You will not have long to wait,” said the landlord; “they begin
to-morrow.”

“So, then, they drew up the indictments before the king was taken?”

“Of course,” said D’Artagnan; “they began the day he was sold.”

“And you know,” said Aramis, “that it was our friend Mordaunt who made,
if not the bargain, at least the overtures.”

“And you know,” added D’Artagnan, “that whenever I catch him I will
kill him, this Mordaunt.”

“And I, too,” exclaimed Porthos.

“And I, too,” added Aramis.

“Touching unanimity!” cried D’Artagnan, “which well becomes good
citizens like us. (Length: 1726 characters)
- I understand,” replied Porthos; “she has ordered relays of
horses.”

“Exactly so.”

“And we are pursuing the duke with the very horses he has just left?”

“My dear Porthos, you are really a man of most superior understanding,”
said D’Artagnan, with a look as if he spoke against his conviction.

“Pooh!” replied Porthos, “I am what I am.”

They rode on for an hour, till the horses were covered with foam and
dust.

“Zounds! what is yonder?” cried D’Artagnan.

“You are very lucky if you see anything such a night as this,” said
Porthos.

“Something bright.”

“I, too,” cried Mousqueton, “saw them also.”

“Ah! ah! have we overtaken them?”

“Good! a dead horse!” said D’Artagnan, pulling up his horse, which
shied; “it seems their horses, too, are breaking down, as well as
ours.”

“I seem to hear the noise of a troop of horsemen,” exclaimed Porthos,
leaning over his horse’s mane.

“Impossible.”

“They appear to be numerous.”

“Then ’tis something else.”

“Another horse!” said Porthos.

“Dead?”

“No, dying.”

“Saddled?”

“Yes, saddled and bridled.”

“Then we are upon the fugitives.”

“Courage, we have them!”

“But if they are numerous,” observed Mousqueton, “’tis not we who have
them, but they who have us.”

“Nonsense!” cried D’Artagnan, “they’ll suppose us to be stronger than
themselves, as we’re in pursuit; they’ll be afraid and will disperse.”

“Certainly,” remarked Porthos.

“Ah! do you see?” cried the lieutenant.

“The lights again! this time I, too, saw them,” said Porthos.

“On! on! forward! forward!” cried D’Artagnan, in his stentorian voice;
“we shall laugh over all this in five minutes.”

And they darted on anew. (Length: 1707 characters)
- Nay, it must have been a promise.”

“A country clown,” said Anne of Austria, “people will laugh.”

“Let them,” answered D’Artagnan. “But I am sure of one thing—that those
who laugh at him in his presence will never laugh a second time.”

“Here goes the barony.” said the queen; she signed a patent.

“Now there remains the chevalier, or the Abbé d’Herblay, as your
majesty pleases.”

“Does he wish to be a bishop?”

“No, madame, something easier to grant.”

“What?”

“It is that the king should deign to stand godfather to the son of
Madame de Longueville.”

The queen smiled.

“Monsieur de Longueville is of royal blood, madame,” said D’Artagnan.

“Yes,” said the queen; “but his son?”

“His son, madame, must be, since the husband of the son’s mother is.”

“And your friend has nothing more to ask for Madame de Longueville?”

“No, madame, for I presume that the king, standing godfather to him,
could do no less than present him with five hundred thousand francs,
giving his father, also, the government of Normandy.”

“As to the government of Normandy,” replied the queen, “I think I can
promise; but with regard to the present, the cardinal is always telling
me there is no more money in the royal coffers.”

“We shall search for some, madame, and I think we can find a little,
and if your majesty approves, we will seek for some together.”

“What next?”

“What next, madame?”

“Yes.”

“That is all.”

“Haven’t you, then, a fourth companion?”

“Yes, madame, the Comte de la Fere.”

“What does he ask?”

“Nothing.”

“There is in the world, then, one man who, having the power to ask,
asks—nothing!”

“There is the Comte de la Fere, madame. (Length: 1704 characters)
- Raoul had been there about ten
minutes, during five of which he was lost in reverie, when there
appeared within the circle comprised in his rolling gaze a man with a
rubicund face, who, with a napkin around his body, another under his
arm, and a white cap upon his head, approached him, holding paper, pen
and ink in hand.

“Ha! ha!” laughed the apparition, “every gentleman seems to have the
same fancy, for not a quarter of an hour ago a young lad, well mounted
like you, as tall as you and of about your age, halted before this
clump of trees and had this table and this chair brought here, and
dined here, with an old gentleman who seemed to be his tutor, upon a
pie, of which they haven’t left a mouthful, and two bottles of Macon
wine, of which they haven’t left a drop, but fortunately we have still
some of the same wine and some of the same pies left, and if your
worship will but give your orders——”

“No, friend,” replied Raoul, smiling, “I am obliged to you, but at this
moment I want nothing but the things for which I have asked—only I
shall be very glad if the ink prove black and the pen good; upon these
conditions I will pay for the pen the price of the bottle, and for the
ink the price of the pie.”

“Very well, sir,” said the host, “I’ll give the pie and the bottle of
wine to your servant, and in this way you will have the pen and ink
into the bargain.”

“Do as you like,” said Raoul, who was beginning his apprenticeship with
that particular class of society, who, when there were robbers on the
highroads, were connected with them, and who, since highwaymen no
longer exist, have advantageously and aptly filled their vacant place. (Length: 1686 characters)
