Title: Twenty Thousand Leagues under the Sea


Top 10 Shortest Sentences:
- Daybreak appeared. (Words: 2)
- I did something. (Words: 3)
- Wit had conquered science. (Words: 4)
- How could I be otherwise? (Words: 5)
- The question took quite another shape. (Words: 6)
- They watched the sea with eager attention. (Words: 7)
- All kinds of stories were circulated regarding it. (Words: 8)
- They examined the sea with the most scrupulous attention. (Words: 9)
- The officers on board shared the opinion of their chief. (Words: 10)
- In every place of great resort the monster was the fashion. (Words: 11)

Top 10 Longest Words:
- _Constitutionnel_ (Length: 17 characters)
- incomprehensible (Length: 16 characters)
- indiscriminately (Length: 16 characters)
- perpendicularity (Length: 16 characters)
- circumnavigation (Length: 16 characters)
- pectinibranchidæ (Length: 16 characters)
- enthusiastically (Length: 16 characters)
- imperturbability (Length: 16 characters)
- unenforceability (Length: 16 characters)
- Notwithstanding (Length: 15 characters)

Top 10 Most Common Letters:
- e (Occurrences: 60819)
- t (Occurrences: 46146)
- a (Occurrences: 38952)
- o (Occurrences: 35749)
- i (Occurrences: 34293)
- n (Occurrences: 33766)
- s (Occurrences: 31713)
- h (Occurrences: 28086)
- r (Occurrences: 27507)
- d (Occurrences: 20151)

Top 10 Most Common Words:
- the (Occurrences: 8770)
- of (Occurrences: 4232)
- and (Occurrences: 2680)
- to (Occurrences: 2632)
- i (Occurrences: 2199)
- a (Occurrences: 2158)
- in (Occurrences: 1639)
- was (Occurrences: 1342)
- it (Occurrences: 1311)
- that (Occurrences: 1050)
Top 10 Longest Sentences:
- They knew not what awaited them.

“Faith, sir,” said Ned Land, “your Captain Nemo—the devil take him!—has
just made us a very pleasant offer.”

“Ah!” said I, “you know?”

“If agreeable to you, sir,” interrupted Conseil, “the commander of the
_Nautilus_ has invited us to visit the magnificent Ceylon fisheries
to-morrow, in your company; he did it kindly, and behaved like a real
gentleman.”

“He said nothing more?”

“Nothing more, sir, except that he had already spoken to you of this
little walk.”

“Sir,” said Conseil, “would you give us some details of the pearl
fishery?”

“As to the fishing itself,” I asked, “or the incidents, which?”

“On the fishing,” replied the Canadian; “before entering upon the
ground, it is as well to know something about it.”

“Very well; sit down, my friends, and I will teach you.”

Ned and Conseil seated themselves on an ottoman, and the first thing
the Canadian asked was:

“Sir, what is a pearl?”

“My worthy Ned,” I answered, “to the poet, a pearl is a tear of the
sea; to the Orientals, it is a drop of dew solidified; to the ladies,
it is a jewel of an oblong shape, of a brilliancy of mother-of-pearl
substance, which they wear on their fingers, their necks, or their
ears; for the chemist it is a mixture of phosphate and carbonate of
lime, with a little gelatine; and lastly, for naturalists, it is simply
a morbid secretion of the organ that produces the mother-of-pearl
amongst certain bivalves.”

“Branch of molluscs,” said Conseil.

“Precisely so, my learned Conseil; and, amongst these testacea the
earshell, the tridacnae, the turbots, in a word, all those which
secrete mother-of-pearl, that is, the blue, bluish, violet, or white
substance which lines the interior of their shells, are capable of
producing pearls.”

“Mussels too?” asked the Canadian.

“Yes, mussels of certain waters in Scotland, Wales, Ireland, Saxony,
Bohemia, and France.”

“Good! (Length: 1960 characters)
- Title: Twenty Thousand Leagues under the Sea


Author: Jules Verne

Release date: September 1, 1994 [eBook #164]
                Most recently updated: October 13, 2023

Language: English



*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TWENTY THOUSAND LEAGUES UNDER THE SEA ***



Twenty Thousand Leagues under the Sea

by Jules Verne




Contents

 PART I
 CHAPTER I A SHIFTING REEF
 CHAPTER II PRO AND CON
 CHAPTER III I FORM MY RESOLUTION
 CHAPTER IV NED LAND
 CHAPTER V AT A VENTURE
 CHAPTER VI AT FULL STEAM
 CHAPTER VII AN UNKNOWN SPECIES OF WHALE
 CHAPTER VIII MOBILIS IN MOBILI
 CHAPTER IX NED LAND’S TEMPERS
 CHAPTER X THE MAN OF THE SEAS
 CHAPTER XI ALL BY ELECTRICITY
 CHAPTER XII SOME FIGURES
 CHAPTER XIII THE BLACK RIVER
 CHAPTER XIV A NOTE OF INVITATION
 CHAPTER XV A WALK ON THE BOTTOM OF THE SEA
 CHAPTER XVI A SUBMARINE FOREST
 CHAPTER XVII FOUR THOUSAND LEAGUES UNDER THE PACIFIC
 CHAPTER XVIII VANIKORO
 CHAPTER XIX TORRES STRAITS
 CHAPTER XX A FEW DAYS ON LAND
 CHAPTER XXI CAPTAIN NEMO’S THUNDERBOLT
 CHAPTER XXII “ÆGRI SOMNIA”
 CHAPTER XXIII THE CORAL KINGDOM

 PART II
 CHAPTER I THE INDIAN OCEAN
 CHAPTER II A NOVEL PROPOSAL OF CAPTAIN NEMO’S
 CHAPTER III A PEARL OF TEN MILLIONS
 CHAPTER IV THE RED SEA
 CHAPTER V THE ARABIAN TUNNEL
 CHAPTER VI THE GRECIAN ARCHIPELAGO
 CHAPTER VII THE MEDITERRANEAN IN FORTY-EIGHT HOURS
 CHAPTER VIII VIGO BAY
 CHAPTER IX A VANISHED CONTINENT
 CHAPTER X THE SUBMARINE COAL-MINES
 CHAPTER XI THE SARGASSO SEA
 CHAPTER XII CACHALOTS AND WHALES
 CHAPTER XIII THE ICEBERG
 CHAPTER XIV THE SOUTH POLE
 CHAPTER XV ACCIDENT OR INCIDENT? (Length: 1650 characters)
- Lesseps!”

“Yes! honour to the great citizen,” I replied, surprised by the manner
in which Captain Nemo had just spoken.

“Unfortunately,” he continued, “I cannot take you through the Suez
Canal; but you will be able to see the long jetty of Port Said after
to-morrow, when we shall be in the Mediterranean.”

“The Mediterranean!” I exclaimed.

“Yes, sir; does that astonish you?”

“What astonishes me is to think that we shall be there the day after
to-morrow.”

“Indeed?”

“Yes, Captain, although by this time I ought to have accustomed myself
to be surprised at nothing since I have been on board your boat.”

“But the cause of this surprise?”

“Well! it is the fearful speed you will have to put on the _Nautilus_,
if the day after to-morrow she is to be in the Mediterranean, having
made the round of Africa, and doubled the Cape of Good Hope!”

“Who told you that she would make the round of Africa and double the
Cape of Good Hope, sir?”

“Well, unless the _Nautilus_ sails on dry land, and passes above the
isthmus——”

“Or beneath it, M. (Length: 1078 characters)
- I end here this catalogue, which is somewhat dry perhaps, but very
exact, with a series of bony fish that I observed in passing belonging
to the apteronotes, and whose snout is white as snow, the body of a
beautiful black, marked with a very long loose fleshy strip;
odontognathes, armed with spikes; sardines nine inches long, glittering
with a bright silver light; a species of mackerel provided with two
anal fins; centronotes of a blackish tint, that are fished for with
torches, long fish, two yards in length, with fat flesh, white and
firm, which, when they arc fresh, taste like eel, and when dry, like
smoked salmon; labres, half red, covered with scales only at the bottom
of the dorsal and anal fins; chrysoptera, on which gold and silver
blend their brightness with that of the ruby and topaz; golden-tailed
spares, the flesh of which is extremely delicate, and whose
phosphorescent properties betray them in the midst of the waters;
orange-coloured spares with long tongues; maigres, with gold caudal
fins, dark thorn-tails, anableps of Surinam, etc. (Length: 1078 characters)
- Amongst these specimens I will quote from memory
only the elegant royal hammer-fish of the Indian Ocean, whose regular
white spots stood out brightly on a red and brown ground, an imperial
spondyle, bright-coloured, bristling with spines, a rare specimen in
the European museums—(I estimated its value at not less than £1000); a
common hammer-fish of the seas of New Holland, which is only procured
with difficulty; exotic buccardia of Senegal; fragile white bivalve
shells, which a breath might shatter like a soap-bubble; several
varieties of the aspirgillum of Java, a kind of calcareous tube, edged
with leafy folds, and much debated by amateurs; a whole series of
trochi, some a greenish-yellow, found in the American seas, others a
reddish-brown, natives of Australian waters; others from the Gulf of
Mexico, remarkable for their imbricated shell; stellari found in the
Southern Seas; and last, the rarest of all, the magnificent spur of New
Zealand; and every description of delicate and fragile shells to which
science has given appropriate names. (Length: 1070 characters)
- I saw there (but not dried up, as our specimens of the
_Nautilus_ are) pavonari spread like a fan, as if to catch the breeze;
scarlet ceramies, whose laminaries extended their edible shoots of
fern-shaped nereocysti, which grow to a height of fifteen feet;
clusters of acetabuli, whose stems increase in size upwards; and
numbers of other marine plants, all devoid of flowers!

“Curious anomaly, fantastic element!” said an ingenious naturalist, “in
which the animal kingdom blossoms, and the vegetable does not!”

Under these numerous shrubs (as large as trees of the temperate zone),
and under their damp shadow, were massed together real bushes of living
flowers, hedges of zoophytes, on which blossomed some zebrameandrines,
with crooked grooves, some yellow caryophylliæ; and, to complete the
allusion, the fish-flies flew from branch to branch like a swarm of
humming-birds, whilst yellow lepisacomthi, with bristling jaws,
dactylopteri, and monocentrides rose at our feet like a flight of
snipes. (Length: 1020 characters)
- Amongst the
cartilaginous ones, petromyzons-pricka, a sort of eel, fifteen inches
long, with a greenish head, violet fins, grey-blue back, brown belly,
silvered and sown with bright spots, the pupil of the eye encircled
with gold—a curious animal, that the current of the Amazon had drawn to
the sea, for they inhabit fresh waters—tuberculated streaks, with
pointed snouts, and a long loose tail, armed with a long jagged sting;
little sharks, a yard long, grey and whitish skin, and several rows of
teeth, bent back, that are generally known by the name of pantouffles;
vespertilios, a kind of red isosceles triangle, half a yard long, to
which pectorals are attached by fleshy prolongations that make them
look like bats, but that their horny appendage, situated near the
nostrils, has given them the name of sea-unicorns; lastly, some species
of balistae, the curassavian, whose spots were of a brilliant gold
colour, and the capriscus of clear violet, and with varying shades like
a pigeon’s throat. (Length: 1018 characters)
- Suddenly my clothes were seized by a strong
hand, and I felt myself quickly drawn up to the surface of the sea; and
I heard, yes, I heard these words pronounced in my ear—

“If master would be so good as to lean on my shoulder, master would
swim with much greater ease.”

I seized with one hand my faithful Conseil’s arm.

“Is it you?” said I, “you?”

“Myself,” answered Conseil; “and waiting master’s orders.”

“That shock threw you as well as me into the sea?”

“No; but being in my master’s service, I followed him.”

The worthy fellow thought that was but natural.

“And the frigate?” I asked.

“The frigate?” replied Conseil, turning on his back; “I think that
master had better not count too much on her.”

“You think so?”

“I say that, at the time I threw myself into the sea, I heard the men
at the wheel say, ‘The screw and the rudder are broken.’”

“Broken?”

“Yes, broken by the monster’s teeth. (Length: 937 characters)
- Now, whether this passage were miraculous or not, the
Israelites, nevertheless, crossed there to reach the Promised Land, and
Pharaoh’s army perished precisely on that spot; and I think that
excavations made in the middle of the sand would bring to light a large
number of arms and instruments of Egyptian origin.”

“That is evident,” I replied; “and for the sake of archaeologists let
us hope that these excavations will be made sooner or later, when new
towns are established on the isthmus, after the construction of the
Suez Canal; a canal, however, very useless to a vessel like the
_Nautilus_.”

“Very likely; but useful to the whole world,” said Captain Nemo. “The
ancients well understood the utility of a communication between the Red
Sea and the Mediterranean for their commercial affairs: but they did
not think of digging a canal direct, and took the Nile as an
intermediate. (Length: 903 characters)
- But in the water it is another
thing.”

“Yes, I understand,” replied Ned, becoming more attentive; “because the
water surrounds me, but does not penetrate.”

“Precisely, Ned: so that at 32 feet beneath the surface of the sea you
would undergo a pressure of 97,500 lbs.; at 320 feet, ten times that
pressure; at 3200 feet, a hundred times that pressure; lastly, at
32,000 feet, a thousand times that pressure would be 97,500,000
lbs.—that is to say, that you would be flattened as if you had been
drawn from the plates of a hydraulic machine!”

“The devil!” exclaimed Ned.

“Very well, my worthy harpooner, if some vertebrate, several hundred
yards long, and large in proportion, can maintain itself in such
depths—of those whose surface is represented by millions of square
inches, that is by tens of millions of pounds, we must estimate the
pressure they undergo. (Length: 883 characters)
